 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  PATHWORKS for VMS[*] (Macintosh(R)),      SPD 35.09.01
                Version 1.2

 DESCRIPTION

 The PATHWORKS family of PC Integration products implements Digital Equip-
 ment Corporation's Personal Computing Systems Architecture (PCSA). PCSA
 is an extension of Digital Equipment Corporation's systems and net-
 working architecture that merges the VAX, PC, and Macintosh environ-
 ments.

 PCSA provides a framework for integrating personal computers into the
 organization's total information system so different types of users
 can share information, system resources, and network services across
 the entire organization.

 The PATHWORKS family of software products includes:

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) - VMS software that allows a VAX sys-
    tem to act as a file, print, mail, and database server to Macin-
    tosh clients. This product is described in this Software Product
    Description.

 o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh - Macintosh software that allows Macintosh
    clients to access file, print, mail, and database services on VMS,
    or file and print services on RISC/ULTRIX systems. This software
    also includes applications for terminal emulation, X display ser-
    vices, DECnet, database access, and mail. This product is used in
    conjunction with PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) and is required for
    Macintosh client access to these VMS-based services (SPD 31.53.xx).
    This product is used in conjunction with Pacer for ULTRIX and is
    required for Macintosh client access to RISC/ULTRIX-based services.

 ____________________

 The   terms VMS and OpenVMS refer to the OpenVMS Operating System.

                               DIGITAL                    March 1993

 

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS - Software that allows a VMS system to act as a
    file, print, mail, and disk server to MS-DOS(R) and OS/2(R) personal
    computers (SPD 30.50.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for OS/2 - Required software for the personal computer
    running the OS/2 Operating System to use the facilities provided
    by PATHWORKS for VMS and/or make the file and print facilities for
    an OS/2 system available to other personal computers (SPD 55.24.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS - Required software for the personal computer run-
    ning MS-DOS to use the facilities provided by PATHWORKS for VMS or
    PATHWORKS for OS/2 server software (SPD 55.07.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for ULTRIX - Software that allows an ULTRIX system to act
    as a file, print, and mail server to DOS and OS/2 personal comput-
    ers (SPD 32.44.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for SCO[TM] UNIX(R) - Software that allows an SCO UNIX-based
    Intel386[TM]/ Intel486[TM] system to act as a file and print server
    to DOS and OS/2 personal computers. PATHWORKS for SCO UNIX is based
    upon Microsoft(R) LAN Manager for UNIX (LMU) V2.2. PATHWORKS for SCO
    UNIX supports Ethernet as the physical media type and DECnet, TCP
    /IP, and NetBEUI as network transports. (Refer to SPD 42.85.xx.)

 PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) allows VAX computers running the VMS op-
 erating system to offer file, print, mail, and database services to
 Macintosh clients. All of the required software for the VAX server sys-
 tem is contained in this media kit. By using a VAX server system, Mac-
 intosh users can share applications, data, printers, and resources,
 access information from remote systems on the network, and apply that
 information in Macintosh applications.

 Features

 PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) provides the following features and ca-
 pabilities:

 o  VAXshare File Services

 o  VAXshare Print Services

                                  2

 

 o  Network-based server management

 o  Mail for Macintosh server

 o  Data Access Language VMS Server and adapter for Rdb/VMS database

 o  AppleTalk(R) for VMS

 o  AppleTalk-to-DECnet transport gateway

 Server Software

 PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) provides the Macintosh user with the fol-
 lowing features of the server software:

 o  VAXshare File Services - The Macintosh user is provided with ac-
    cess to remote VMS file systems as a transparent extension of the
    client's local disk facilities. Macintosh files are stored on the
    VAX system and accessed as if they were stored on the user's lo-
    cal disk. VAXshare file services are based on the AppleTalk for VMS
    (V3.1) network transport and are compliant with the Apple(R) Filing
    Protocol (AFP), Version 2.1.

    VAXshare file services assign the Macintosh type and creator at-
    tributes to files that were not created on a Macintosh. The cre-
    ator and type determine the icon that is displayed on the Macin-
    tosh desktop. When a Macintosh user selects a file that was not cre-
    ated using the Macintosh, VAXshare assigns a type and creator based
    on the file's extension through a lookup table. This table may be
    modified to tailor the server to site-specific needs.

    Each Macintosh file stored on the file server is stored as a VMS
    file in RMS Sequential file format. These Macintosh files are ac-
    cessible to VMS users and applications that can interpret the con-
    tent and organization of a file written by a Macintosh application.

    The file server can read all RMS file types that can be read se-
    quentially, allowing Macintosh applications to read files written


                                  3

 

    by a VMS application. Each read issued by the Macintosh applica-
    tion will result in the presentation to the application of the next
    'n' bytes contained sequentially in the file.

    AFP byte-range locking is supported for Macintosh applications ac-
    cessing files provided through the file service.

    System administrators can create file services that appear in more
    than one AppleTalk zone, which provides flexibility in your envi-
    ronment. System administrators can also limit the number of con-
    nections to a file server volume and set a timeout value for in-
    active connections to a file server. The file server can detect unau-
    thorized intrusions using the VMS Intrusion database.

 o  VAXshare Print Services - Remote printers appear to the Macintosh
    user as a transparent extension of the client's local facilities.
    Macintosh users can access VMS print queues to print to both Ap-
    ple LaserWriters(R) and Digital PostScript(R) printers. The Apple Laser-
    Writer can be accessed via a LocalTalk(R)-to-Ethernet router, a di-
    rect Ethernet connection (for those LaserWriters that support this),
    a terminal server (LAT) port, or directly connected to the serial
    port of the VAX computer.

    The system administrator assigns a service name to the print queue.
    The Macintosh users select the printer from the Chooser as they do
    local printers. Then the printer I/O is directed to the defined and
    selected VAXshare print service.

    VAXshare print services include support for the VAXshare Receiver,
    which handles print requests from the Macintosh. The Receiver stores
    the PostScript data it receives from the Macintosh in a temporary
    VMS file before sending the data to the VMS print queuing system.
    System administrators can choose to disable the Receiver so Mac-
    intosh users cannot print to a specific LaserWriter. System admin-
    istrators can also hide a LaserWriter from the Chooser, so that users
    who want to print to a specific printer are required to print through
    the VAXshare print service.

    VAXshare print services also support the VAXshare print symbiont,
    which transfers data from a VAX system to an Apple LaserWriter printer.
    The VAXshare symbiont also converts an ASCII file submitted by a

                                  4

 

    VMS user to PostScript data before transferring the data to the printer.
    The symbiont does not support full ANSI conversion. VAXshare uses
    the DECprint Printing Services to transfer data to a Digital PostScript
    printer.

    The MSA$MANAGER utility is used to create print services. Print queues
    for Digital's printers must be previously defined on the VAX. Laser-
    Writer queues are created by the MSA$MANAGER utility.

 o  Server Management and Control - When a server offers a file resource
    for use, the system administrator can associate an Access Control
    List, which specifies privileges assigned to users.

    While the software may be running on more than one node of a VAX-
    cluster, each Macintosh Volume served can only be served from a sin-
    gle file server in the cluster. As a result, there is no cluster
    fail-over of a served volume.

    An administrator's utility (MSA$MANAGER) is provided to allow the
    system administrator to add and remove services, and show resources.
    The system administrator can also manage a remote server using the
    SET REMOTE command.

    A second administrator's utility (ATK$MANAGER) is provided to al-
    low the system administrator to set up and maintain AppleTalk for
    VMS and the AppleTalk/DECnet transport gateway.

 o  Mail for Macintosh Server - The mail server included in PATHWORKS
    for VMS (Macintosh) provides Macintosh clients with the ability to
    send and receive electronic mail messages. A mail account is es-
    tablished on the VMS server for each client, unless an account al-
    ready exists. Mail can be sent to this account by other Macintosh
    clients as well as users of any mail system that can communicate
    with VMSmail software. The mail server then routes messages to the
    appropriate client when the client logs into the server.

    The PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) mail server provides the Macin-
    tosh user with folders, distribution lists, and delivery capabil-
    ities. Notification of new messages occurs when the Macintosh user
    logs into a network session and the PATHWORKS Listener is running
    on the client.

                                  5

 


 Network Connectivity

 AppleTalk for VMS Version 3.1 is an implementation of Apple's AppleTalk
 Networking protocols and interface libraries for VMS systems. AppleTalk
 for VMS allows a VMS system to communicate with an AppleTalk network.
 The VAXshare file and print services use this network transport. The
 AppleTalk for VMS protocol stack includes support for the following
 protocols: ADSP, AELAP, AARP, AEP, NBP, ZIP, RTMP (full set), ATP, ASP
 (server only), PAP (client and server). The ASP client and the AFP pro-
 tocols are not implemented in the AppleTalk for VMS protocol stack.

 AppleTalk for VMS, Version 3.1 supports AppleTalk Phase 2 protocols.
 Only Macintosh computers connected to Phase 2 networks can access ser-
 vices using AppleTalk for VMS.

 AppleTalk for VMS also enables routing, or tunneling, through DECnet.
 When tunneling, AppleTalk packets are encapsulated in DECnet packets
 so the AppleTalk network can be extended, and Macintosh users can ac-
 cess remote AppleTalk networks and servers as if they were local.

 The router provides AppleTalk Internet routing, zone management, rout-
 ing table maintenance, and name-binding broadcast request handling.
 When routing, or tunneling, datalink speeds below 56 kilobits/second
 are not recommended and speeds below 19.2 kilobits/second are not sup-
 ported. The datalink speed must be capable of handling DECnet and Ap-
 pleTalk traffic (including all protocol overhead) without congestion.
 That is, there must be sufficient bandwidth to maintain reliable com-
 munications.

 AppleTalk/DECnet Gateway, which is VMS software, connects a Macintosh
 with a DECnet service on any DECnet node. As a result, Macintosh users
 who only have AppleTalk connectivity but no DECnet resident software
 can participate in task-to-task applications. Macintosh applications
 that are written to take advantage of the AppleTalk/DECnet gateway can
 participate in AppleTalk/DECnet task-to-task communications. The gate-
 way provides bi-directional conversion between AppleTalk ADSP and DEC-
 net NSP protocols. The gateway supports up to 1000 connections from
 client applications provided sufficient system CPU and memory resources

                                  6

 

 are available. Significant system tuning will be necessary if the num-
 ber of sessions is raised appreciably from the default of 100.

 Database Access

 The Data Access Language server and adapter for Rdb are included with
 PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh). The Data Access Language is a database
 connectivity language based on the structured query language (SQL).
 The Data Access Language, as supported by PATHWORKS for VMS (Macin-
 tosh), provides access to Rdb/VMS databases. This allows Macintosh ap-
 plications that support the Data Access Language to access informa-
 tion stored in a remote Rdb database. The Rdb/VMS software is avail-
 able as a separate product and must be installed on a VAX computer to
 be used with the Rdb adapter. Refer to the VAX Rdb/VMS Software Prod-
 uct Description (SPD 25.59.xx) for more information about VAX Rdb/VMS
 software.


 Installation and Configuration

 PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) is installed on the VAX using the stan-
 dard VMSINSTAL procedure. PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh), Version 1.1
 or later, must be installed prior to installing the PATHWORKS for Mac-
 intosh client software. Digital recommends that you use PATHWORKS for
 VMS (Macintosh) V1.2 server software with PATHWORKS for Macintosh V1.2
 client software. The V1.2 server provides a number of new facilities
 of which the V1.2 client can take advantage.

 Digital recommends that the customer's first purchase of this soft-
 ware product include the PATHWORKS for Macintosh DECstart (QS-YPCAL-
 4R). This is an implementation and orientation service that provides
 support for first-time customers of the PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh)
 and PATHWORKS for Macintosh products. The service assists in the in-
 stallation of the PATHWORKS software, the integration of Macintosh work-
 stations into the Digital Network, and the setup of the user's envi-
 ronments.




                                  7

 


 Restrictions and Limitations

 Because PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) uses AppleTalk Phase 2 proto-
 cols, services provided by the VAX servers will only be accessible to
 Macintoshes that are connected to Phase 2 networks. Phase 1 networks
 can co-exist with Phase 2 provided there is a suitably placed Phase
 1 to Phase 2 transition router somewhere in the network. Use of Phase
 1 protocols anywhere in the network is not recommended due to the in-
 creased network load.

 The Data Access Language server limits the number of connections to
 1,024. The default connection limit is 63. To increase the limit, in-
 crease the SOCKET COUNT. Each DAL connection requires two sockets and
 the maximum value for the socket count is 2,048.

 While AFP byte range locking is supported among Macintosh clients, only
 file locking is supported with other types of clients (DOS and OS/2).

 For serially connected LaserWriters, the following characters in font
 families are not available: Ctrl-C, Ctrl-D, Ctrl-Q, Ctrl-S, Ctrl-T.
 These characters are used by the PostScript interpreter for handshak-
 ing purposes. Attempts to print these characters result in a space char-
 acter. This restriction does not apply to AppleTalk printers directly
 connected on Ethernet or LocalTalk.

 The Mail for Macintosh server restricts folder names to 39 characters.
 If a user creates a folder with more than 39 characters in the name,
 it is truncated after the 39th character.

 The VAXshare implementation of AFP V2.1 does not support Blank Access
 Privileges or the AFP Cat Search functions.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 35.09.01-x).



                                  8

 

 PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) has been tested on a number of supported
 configurations (refer to SSA 35.09.01-x). If a customer problem with
 PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) is reproduced by the customer on one of
 these supported configurations, Digital will work the problem to res-
 olution on these supported configurations. If the customer problem can-
 not be reproduced by the customer on one of these supported config-
 urations, it is the responsibility of the customer to resolve the is-
 sue.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 For Workstations Running VMS:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 For Workstations Running DECwindows:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
    dows)

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 35.09.01-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Client Software License: QL-YPH9W-AA
    (One required per Macintosh client.)
 Media and Documentation: QA-YPCAA-H*
    (Minimum of one required.)
 Server Administration Documentation:
    (Identical to documentation contained in the QA-YPCAA-H* kits.) QA-
    YPCAA-GZ (Optional.)
 Programmer's Documentation:
    QA-YPCAC-GZ (Optional.)

                                  9

 

 Software Product Services:
    PATHWORKS Layered Product Support: QT-GZPA9-**
    Media and Documentation Distribution Service: QT-YPCAA-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 Documentation

 Server Administration documentation includes the Introduction to the
 AppleTalk Network System, Server Installation Guide, Server Adminis-
 trator's Guide, and Server Administrator's Reference Manual.

 Programmers' documentation includes the Programmer's Guide, Program-
 mer's Reference, Data Access Language Programmer's Reference, DECnet
 for Macintosh Programmer's Reference, Programmer's ReadMe, and the DAL
 Programmer's Update.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The PATHWORKS for Macintosh license gives the user the right to use
 the client software on a single Macintosh CPU and to use the PATHWORKS
 for VMS (Macintosh) server software on one or more VAX systems, or the
 Pacer for ULTRIX server software on one or more RISC/ULTRIX systems.

 A license must be obtained in advance for each Macintosh system on which
 the PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software is installed or from which
 the PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) or Pacer for ULTRIX services are ac-
 cessed.

 The PATHWORKS for Macintosh license also gives the user the right to
 use ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh client software (SPD 31.51.xx). The
 media and documentation for ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh are available
 separately.

 This product does not support the License Management Facility (LMF).




                                 10

 

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation on Digital's licensing terms and policies, please contact
 your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software is provided by Digital with the purchase
 of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Ad-
 dendum of this SPD.


 

 (R)  Microsoft and MS-DOS are registered trademarks of Microsoft
    Corporation.

 (R)  OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
    chines Corporation.

 (R)  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

 (R)  Apple, AppleTalk, LaserWriter, LocalTalk, and Macintosh are
    registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

 (R)  UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories,
    Inc.

 [TM]Intel, Intel386, and intel486 are trademarks of Intel Corpora-
    tion.

 [TM]SCO is a trademark of Santa Cruz Operations, Inc.



                                 11

 


 [TM]The DIGITAL logo, ALL-IN-1, DEC, DECnet, DECprint, DECstart,
    DEClaser, DECwindows, Digital, LAT, LN03, LN03 ScriptPrinter,
    MicroVAX, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, PrintServer, Rdb/VMS, TK, ULTRIX,
    VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXshare, VAXstation, and
    VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.


































                                 12
