 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:   BASEstar Open Server                   SPD 47.87.01
                Version 2.0

DESCRIPTION

BASEstar Open software facilitates the integration of manufacturing
applications and plant equipment. Accelerated development of integrated
manufacturing systems is assured through an architecture that also en-
courages consistency of application development.

BASEstar Open takes advantage of the client/server computing archi-
tecture. While the server software library supplies all supported ser-
vices, the client software library allows client applications to ac-
cess the same services from any network Node on which BASEstar Client
is installed. Client and server communications within BASEstar Open
are provided through TCP/IP network communications.

For a description of the BASEstar Open Client product, refer to SPD
47.80.01

BASEstar Open software provides services that allow a comprehensive
support for manufacturing application integration, device connection,
and control of plant equipment.

The software operates in a distributed processing environment and its
application integration features include:

o  Collection, management, and distribution of plant data

o  Automatic notification of significant (and critical) plant events

o  Exchange of Packets of data via peer-to-peer communication

o  Facilities for allowing the synchronization of manufacturing ap-
   plications

                              DIGITAL                  January 1995

                                                        AE-Q1QEB-TE

 

In addition, BASEstar Open has the capability of allowing applications
distributed across different network Nodes to use globally-defined ob-
jects.

Device integration software provides services to access and control
plant floor equipment based on proprietary and standards communica-
tion protocols. Specific communication services are provided through
specific Device Access Software (DAS) modules. The DAS modules require
separate licences from BASEstar Open.

Features

Application Integration

o  Data Management

   BASEstar Open Data Services provide a standard mechanism for defin-
   ing, organizing, and accessing data in a distributed manufactur-
   ing environment from a variety of sources including plant devices
   and area, plant, and work cell applications.

   BASEstar Open defines discrete data elements (Data_Points) to man-
   age manufacturing information. Data_Point definitions can be of var-
   ious types, ranging from scalar data elements to user-defined data
   structures. This maximizes the flexibility of data definition and
   acquisition.

   Since each Data_Point is referenced by name, applications become
   independent of their data sources and, consequently, do not require
   alteration as data sources change. In addition, simple Data_Points
   can have a predefined value specified at startup time. Data Ser-
   vices allow applications to define and manage datapoints.

   Each Data_Point can be associated with one or more Triggers. A Trig-
   ger defines a relationship between a Data_Point, a filter, and an
   event. Each time the value of a triggered Data_Point changes, as-
   sociated filter expressions are evaluated. Whenever the Boolean re-
   sult of an evaluated filter expression is TRUE, the associated Event
   is declared.

                                 2

 

   One or more versions of a Data_Point value can be stored. In ad-
   dition to the value, each Data_Point version includes the time when
   the Data_Point value changed and its status at that time.

   A new version is generated each time the value of a Data_Point changes.
   A user can request the current version, and thus the current value,
   or alternatively the value associated with any cached version.

o  Event Services

   BASEstar Open Event Services allow users to subscribe to one or more
   Events. Events are occurrences that are of interest to an appli-
   cation program-threshold exceeding, alarms, job completion, and so
   on. Users define the occurrence of such Events and specify the con-
   text information that should be passed. This context information
   can also include data and their types.

   To be notified of the occurrence of a specific Event, the appli-
   cation must issue a subscription to the Event.

   When an Event is declared, Event Services create and deliver the
   notifications that can be received by subscribers. A single Event
   declaration can generate many notifications on a one-to-many re-
   lationship, depending on the number of active subscriptions.

o  Packet Services

   BASEstar Open Packet Services allow users to directly exchange Pack-
   ets of information. Two users can establish direct communication
   through a Port to be used to send a Packet, and to which a user can
   connect to receive it.

   A Packet contains a description of information that must be exchanged.
   Each Packet input and output parameter is described by a datatype.

   BASEstar Open delivers a Packet to a Port in a protocol-independent
   manner and also independent of the location of the users and Ports
   involved.


                                 3

 

o  Application Services

   BASEstar Open Application Services provide all the functions re-
   quired to manage and coordinate manufacturing applications. These
   applications may be standalone or distributed across the Nodes of
   a network.

   Application Services allow users to organize application activi-
   ties into hierarchical structures that support the execution startup
   and shutdown of synchronized activities, and user-defined error re-
   covery policies.

   An application Activity can be executed, suspended, resumed, and
   terminated. All Activity states are monitored. If an Activity (or
   Node) fails, several recovery policies can be applied. For instance,
   in case of Node failure, an application can be restarted on an al-
   ternative Node.

o  Application Development Support

   To assist in developing applications, especially when debugging or
   troubleshooting, a Source Trace Tool is provided. This tool is used
   internally by BASEstar Open and is also available to users for mon-
   itoring the execution flow of an application.

   Trace facilities can be dynamically enabled or disabled by spec-
   ifying different granularity levels; it is not required that the
   user stops and restarts the tracing process. The output of the trace
   tool can be routed to several kinds of output devices-memory, files,
   terminals, and so on.

Device Integration

o  Device Management

   BASEstar Open software enables applications to interact with plant
   devices without knowledge of physical device characteristics such
   as location, protocol, or device specific data formats. Physical
   devices are modeled in compliance with the MMS standard - Message
   Manufacturing Specification ISO 9506. Devices are accessed through
   specific Device Access software (DAS) which provides operations such

                                 4

 

   as reading and writing of simple and structured data via specific
   device protocols.

o  Device Access Software (DAS)

   Different manufacturing devices use different services and commu-
   nication protocols to connect to a computer system. These services
   and communication protocols are control vendor proprietary.

   BASEstar Open DAS software addresses proprietary communication spec-
   ifications to access device controllers that are available on the
   market from multiple control vendors.

   Device Access Software for many leading industrial control devices
   is available through Digital.

o  Data Collection

   BASEstar Open software collects data from plant devices on request
   from the host Node (solicited), at predefined intervals (polling),
   or when generated by a device (unsolicited).

   Polling is a means to collect data by reading specified address reg-
   isters in the memory of a programmable device at pre-defined in-
   tervals. To do so, the application is required to define a set of
   Data_Points (Polling_Sets) from which data need to be collected.

   In addition, BASEstar Open can receive unsolicited data directly
   from plant equipment devices, thus eliminating the processing over-
   head involved in continuous polling.

o  BASEstar Classic Device Connectivity integration[1]

   BASEstar Open for OpenVMS VAX includes a subset of BASEstar Clas-
   sic to enable the use of many of the DASes available through the
   BASEstar Classic DCM connectivity. For more information, refer to
   the BASEstar Classic for OpenVMS Software Product Description (SPD
   33.17.xx).

____________________
 Feature  available only with BASEstar Open on OpenVMS VAX, Version 5.5-

  2.

                                 5

 

Configuration Management

o  Named Objects

   The BASEstar Open environment is a collection of named objects which
   represent plant devices and Data_Points-alarms, data status, pro-
   duction counts, and so on. Manufacturing applications can there-
   fore access these resources using meaningful functional names, rather
   than in a system-dependent manner which would require, for instance,
   information on physical locations.

   BASEstar Open objects reside in Domains. Domains are hierarchically
   linked to form a BASEstar Open Realm. Several Realms can be active
   at the same time.

o  Local and Remote Objects Access

   BASEstar Open objects can be directly accessed within a Realm by
   using the object's full pathname. The full pathname includes the
   local name preceded by the relevant Domain names. Alternatively,
   the user can set the default Domain and access objects in that Do-
   main using local names, and objects in lower Domains using partial
   pathnames.

o  System Configuration and Tuning

   BASEstar Open software provides command procedures that can be used
   to tune object configurations. A system manager can use the sug-
   gested values as guidelines in setting parameter values to opti-
   mize the usage of system resources.

o  Logging

   In addition to error and diagnostic information, BASEstar Open al-
   lows the logging of significant Events. For instance, the creation
   of an object definition.

BASEstar Open Interfaces


                                 6

 

The BASEstar Open Server provides the following interfaces:

o  Application Programming Interface (API)

   The BASEstar Open API provides callable services for creating new
   applications and integrating existing manufacturing applications.

o  Command Line Interface (CLI)

   The BASEstar Open CLI is a command line interface for use by sys-
   tem managers, process and manufacturing engineers, and application
   programmers to configure and manage BASEstar objects. Commands are
   provided for performing general operations such as BASEstar Open
   object configuration and management.

o  Graphic Configuration Utility (GCU)

   A Graphic Configuration Utility is available with the Server kits.
   It is a graphical tool intended for configuring objects in the Per-
   manent Object Database (PODB). Depending on the operating system,
   it is:

   -  VMS DECwindows Motif-based on OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

   -  OSF/Motif-based on OSF/1 AXP

   By using this Configuration Utility, the user can create, modify,
   delete and rename BASEstar Open PODB objects. The user can also dis-
   play the graphical layout of the BASEstar Open configuration.

Development and Runtime Versions

Users who intend to develop BASEstar Open applications will need the
BASEstar Open development version. This will allow C language programs
containing BASEstar Open API calls to be compiled and linked with the
BASEstar Open libraries. Users who already have available a compiled
and linked BASEstar Open application only need a runtime version of
BASEstar Open.

Documentation

                                 7

 

BASEstar Open Server includes the following documentation:

o  BASEstar Open Introduction provides an overview of the services and
   concepts within BASEstar Open.

o  BASEstar Open Reference Guide provides the definition and speci-
   fication of the object model within BASEstar Open.

o  BASEstar Open Application Programming Interface provides the spec-
   ification of the callable interface to access BASEstar Open ser-
   vices.

o  BASEstar Open Command Language Interface provides the specifica-
   tion of the command line interface to access BASEstar Open services.

o  BASEstar Open Configuration Utility User's Guide provides infor-
   mation on how to configure BASEstar Open objects through the sup-
   ported graphical user interface.

o  BASEstar Open Management Guide provides the information to manage
   the BASEstar Open environment.

o  BASEstar Open Messages provides the definition and the description
   of BASEstar Open error messages and suggested solutions.

o  An installation guide specific to each operating system version,
   for installing BASEstar Open on the selected operating system. It
   provides instructions on how to install BASEstar Open and platform-
   specific information.

o  Release Notes describes new features provided with BASEstar Open
   Server and details any functional and documentation errors.

o  Software Product Description-this document

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX also provides the following man-
uals:

o  BASEstar Open Guide to DCM-Modeled Device Connectivity provides in-
   structions on how to use BASEstar Classic for OpenVMS VAX Device
   Connectivity.

                                 8

 

o  DEComni API for OpenVMS VAX ODS Guide provides the specification
   for the DEComni Directory Services.

BASEstar Open Server for OSF/1 also provides the following manual:

o  DEComni API for OSF/1 AXP ODS Guide provides the specification for
   the DEComni Directory Services.

INSTALLATION

Before attempting to install the software, the customer must have all
the prerequisite hardware and software installed. Digital recommends
that a customer's first purchase of this software include Digital In-
stallation Services.

Connectivity to all other Nodes within the network is the responsi-
bility of the customer. Delays caused by any failure to meet these re-
sponsibilities will be charged at the prevailing rate for time and ma-
terials.

SUPPORTED VERSIONS

This SPD covers the following versions of the BASEstar Open Server prod-
uct:

o  BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX V2.0A

o  BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha V2.0

o  BASEstar Open Server for OSF/1 AXP V2.0A

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Processors Supported

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX:
VAX processors supporting OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2 and Version 6.1,
except the following:

Processors Not Supported

                                 9

 


VAX:        VAX-11/725

            VAX-11/730

            VAX-11/750

            VAX-11/782

MicroVAX:   MicroxVAX I

VAXstation: VAXstation I
            VAXstation 8000

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha:
AXP processors supporting OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.1

BASEstar Open Server for OSF/1:
AXP processors supporting OSF/1 AXP Version 3.0

DISK SPACE REQUIREMENTS

BASEstar Open for OpenVMS VAX

Disk space required for installation:

o  30,000 blocks

Disk space required for use (permanent):

o  28,100 blocks

BASEstar Open for OpenVMS Alpha

Disk space required for installation:

o  60,000 blocks

Disk space required for use (permanent):

o  50,000 blocks

                                10

 

BASEstar Open for OSF/1 Alpha

Disk space required for installation and subsequent use:

o  120 Mbytes

These values do not include disk space required for using supported
relational databases.

The values refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
system environment, configuration, and software options.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System V5.5-2 (SPD 25.01.xx), V6.1

Layered Products:

o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS Version 3.1 (SPD 25.A4.xx)

o  DEC RdB for OpenVMS VAX is required for applications which make use
   of the Permanent Object Database (PODB).

For systems using DECwindows terminals the following software is also
required:

o  VMS DECwindows Motif (SPD 36.09.xx)

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha

o  OpenVMS Alpha Operating System V6.1

Layered Products:

o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS V3.1

o  DEC RdB for OpenVMS Alpha V6.0 (optional)

                                11

 

BASEstar Open Server for OSF/1 AXP

o  OSF/1 AXP Operating System V3.0

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements for the current
version.

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

This product is available on the Digital CD-ROM Layered Products Soft-
ware Library (Consolidated Software distribution) for OSF/1 AXP, Open-
VMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX. It is also available for:

o  BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX on TK50 Streaming tape

ORDERING INFORMATION

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX Development Option:

Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X7A*-AA
Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X7AA-3B
Software Documentation: QA-0X7AA-GZ
Software Media: QA-0X7AA-**
Software Product Services: QT-0X7A*-**

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX Runtime Option:

Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X6A*-AA
Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X6AA-3B
Software Documentation: QA-0X6AA-GZ
Software Media: QA-0X6AA-**
Software Product Services: QT-0X6A*-**

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha Development Option:



                                12

 

Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X9A*-AA
Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X9AA-3B
Software Documentation: QA-0X9AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-0X9A*-**

BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha Runtime Option:

Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X8A*-AA
Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X8AM-3B
Software Documentation: QA-0X8AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-0X8A*-**

BASEstar Open Server for OSF/1 AXP Development Option:

Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0XBA*-AA
Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0XBAM-3B
Software Documentation: QA-0XBAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-0XBA*-**

BASEstar Open Server for OSF/1 AXP Runtime Option:

Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0XAA*-AA
Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0XAAM-3B
Software Documentation: QA-0XAAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-0XAA*-**

The above information is valid at the time of release. Please contact
your local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
ital office. BASEstar Open Server is licensed in the following pack-
ages:

o  BASEstar Open Server Development License which enables software de-
   velopers to integrate manufacturing applications and devices.


                                13

 

o  BASEstar Open Server Runtime License which allows applications and
   devices that are already integrated with BASEstar Open software to
   run in a BASEstar Open environment.

License units for BASEstar Open Server allow for development and run-
time kits, and are allocated for either "Concurrent Use" or "Unlimited System Use".
Each "Concurrent Use" license allows up to 250 BASEstar Open Data_Points
to be used."Unlimited System Use" licenses are based on Digital's 3-
tier licensing policy.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
formation, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
chase of a license for the product as defined in the Digital Standard
Terms and Conditions of this SPD.

The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

© 1995 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

[TM] The DIGITAL Logo, BASEstar Classic, BASEstar Open, Bookreader,
     DEC, DEComni, DECosap, DECstation, DECsystem, DECnet, Digi-
     tal, MicroVAX, TK, OpenVMS are trademarks of Digital Equip-
     ment Corporation.










                                14
