 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1          SPD
           33.17.02

           DESCRIPTION

           BASEstar for VMS software facilitates the integration of man-
           ufacturing applications with plant equipment, accelerates
           development of integrated manufacturing systems, and pro-
           vides an architecture for consistent development of manu-
           facturing applications. BASEstar software has features for
           manufacturing application integration, device connection and
           control of plant equipment, and storage and management of
           device and operator files through its library system.

           BASEstar software operates in a distributed VAX processing
           environment. Its application integration features include:
           the ability to collect, manage, and distribute plant data,
           automatically notify applications of critical changes in plant
           information, and synchronize execution of manufacturing ap-
           plications. BASEstar software's distributed capabilities al-
           low globally-defined objects to be utilized by applications
           residing on different nodes in a BASEstar network.

           BASEstar device integration software gives generic device
           access and control for plant equipment through an interface
           that is independent of device-specific operations and pro-
           tocols. BASEstar device connection management software is
           dependent on equipment level communication achieved through
           BASEstar device access software (DAS) allowing data to be
           obtained through standard mechanisms and made available through-
           out the BASEstar network. BASEstar device connection man-
           agement capabilities can also be used to start and stop de-
           vice operations, upload from and download to the memory of

                                    DIGITAL            December 1991

                                                         AE-PD07C-TE

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           programmable devices, and perform other standard functions
           offered by industrial control devices.

           BASEstar library management software provides BASEstar users
           with a mechanism for storing and tracking file development,
           controlling access to files, and transferring files to and
           from devices. The BASEstar library system can track a file
           from its development stage through testing and production
           to the archive stage while providing a history of files changes.
           Through its ability to control distribution of files, the
           BASEstar library can prevent an outdated control program from
           running in production.

           BASEstar offers three distinct interfaces. The BASEstar menu
           interface is used by plant personnel in communicating with
           plant devices, managing device and operator files, and con-
           figuring manufacturing system elements. The BASEstar com-
           mand line interface (CLI) is used by system managers and man-
           ufacturing engineers in configuring the BASEstar environ-
           ment (such as defining users, devices and data points, set-
           ting up system security, and recording system events in a
           central log file). BASEstar software also offers an appli-
           cation programming interface for software developers, pro-
           viding callable services for application and device inte-
           gration.

           BASEstar is licensed as two packages:

           o  BASEstar for VMS is a development license enabling soft-
              ware developers to integrate manufacturing applications
              and devices.

           o  BASEstar Runtime for VMS is a runtime license allowing
              applications and devices integrated with BASEstar soft-
              ware to run in a BASEstar environment.

           Features

           Application Integration


                                       2

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           o  Data Management

              BASEstar software's data management capabilities provide
              a common mechanism for defining, organizing, and access-
              ing data in an integrated-manufacturing environment. This
              data comes from a variety of sources including: plant de-
              vices, area, plant or work cell applications, and user
              input.
              BASEstar software defines discrete data elements, called
              "logical points," to manage manufacturing data. These log-
              ical point definitions reference both single data ele-
              ments and data structures allowing users maximum flex-
              ibility in data definition and acquisition. When BASEs-
              tar software starts, each point value is set to an ini-
              tial value or to its last known value. Because BASEstar
              data is referenced by name, applications are independent
              of data sources and do not require alteration when sources
              of data change.
              BASEstar data management includes: the ability to access
              and change point values and definitions, receive noti-
              fication of point value changes, and obtain point val-
              ues by performing arithmetic or logical operations through
              BASEstar expression processing. Through these capabil-
              ities, BASEstar software acts as the hub for collecting
              and distributing current-value manufacturing data to in-
              tegrated manufacturing applications.

              Manufacturing data collected by BASEstar software can be
              formatted to database specifications and exported to an
              Rdb/VMS database for use in data analysis applications
              such as historical trend analysis and statistical qual-
              ity control. In addition, BASEstar data can be exported
              to other external destinations including a database of
              choice, an application, or another computer system. BASEs-
              tar technical documentation describes how to write a database
              server to export BASEstar data to an external destina-
              tion.




                                       3

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           o  Distributed Messaging

              BASEstar event-driven messaging is a controlled and ef-
              ficient means of message communication between manufac-
              turing applications. BASEstar messaging isolates appli-
              cations from networking protocols and communications paths
              and provides a means by which applications can communi-
              cate whether they reside on a single system or are dis-
              tributed throughout a network.

              BASEstar messaging offers users the ability to create,
              receive and send messages between applications synchronously
              or asynchronously. It supports three types of messaging:
              point-to-point messaging, messaging over a circuit be-
              tween two ports, or messaging to a circuit cluster port
              that forwards the message to multiple destinations.

              DECmessageQ is Digital's NAS implementation of a message
              queuing system that supports interprocess communication
              in a heterogeneous environment between independent tasks
              for receiving and sending messages. The integration of
              DECmessageQ with BASEstar software allows BASEstar ap-
              plications to receive BASEstar data change notification
              through DECmessageQ queues.

           o  Application Control and Synchronization

              BASEstar application control coordinates the start up and
              shut down of applications within a distributed manufac-
              turing system. After BASEstar start up is complete, a site-
              specific startup command file executes to start BASEs-
              tar applications. BASEstar applications can also be started
              by sending a message to a server port which is associ-
              ated with the executable image of the application to be
              started. Applications can also be started remotely on any
              BASEstar system using a BASEstar callable service.





                                       4

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


              When BASEstar shuts down, it sends a shutdown message to
              all application message ports. Any BASEstar application
              can create a message port to receive this shutdown re-
              quest and proceed with an orderly shut down.

              BASEstar synchronization services give software devel-
              opers a sophisticated mechanism for synchronizing appli-
              cation processing in a distributed environment. These ser-
              vices also provide a means to synchronize access to user-
              specified resources.

           o  Application Development

              BASEstar for VMS software includes two tools to facil-
              itate the development of BASEstar applications. The Value
              Notification Utility is a testing tool to notify an ap-
              plication developer when a logical point value has changed.
              The BASEstar LSE Environment extends the VAX Language-
              Sensitive Editor (LSE) to provide expandable tokens for
              BASEstar callable services, DAS support routines, and BASEs-
              tar application programming interface (API) constants.

           Device Integration

           o  Device Access and Control

              BASEstar for VMS software enables applications to inter-
              act with plant devices without knowing any of their phys-
              ical characteristics such as location, protocol, or device-
              specific data formats. BASEstar uses device access soft-
              ware modules to provide device access and control capa-
              bilities including:

              -  Allocating devices for exclusive use

              -  Reading data from and writing data to devices by ad-
                 dress

              -  Reading data from and writing data to devices by name

              -  Starting/stopping devices and device programs

                                       5

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


              -  Selecting device programs for execution

              -  Reading status and diagnostic information from devices

              -  Uploading files or device programs from devices

              -  Downloading files or device programs to devices

              -  Deleting files from devices

              -  Displaying file directories from devices

              -  Deallocating devices

           The implementation of the specific DAS determines which op-
           erations are available.

           o  Data Collection

              BASEstar software collects data from plant devices upon
              request, at regular pre-defined intervals, or when gen-
              erated by the device. Polling is a means of collecting
              data by reading specified address registers in the mem-
              ory of a programmable device at pre-defined intervals.
              Pollsets define the set of points from which data is col-
              lected.

              In addition to polling, BASEstar software can also re-
              ceive unsolicited data from plant equipment. The abil-
              ity to collect unsolicited data directly from a device
              eliminates the processing overhead involved in contin-
              uously polling devices to receive data.

           o  Device Access Software (DAS)

              Manufacturing devices from various vendors use differ-
              ent data protocols and command structures when connect-
              ing to a computer system. BASEstar uses special modules
              called device access software (DAS) to communicate be-
              tween BASEstar and the device controllers of a partic-
              ular manufacturer. BASEstar software includes example DAS

                                       6

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


              modules for RS-232 devices and for DECnet and TCP/IP net-
              works.

              BASEstar software includes three DAS modules. The RS-232
              DAS enables communication with devices having an RS-232
              serial port. The DECnet and TCP/IP DAS enables communi-
              cation with applications through DECnet and TCP/IP net-
              working software to integrate applications running on an
              MS-DOS® personal computer or on a UNIX® system with BASEs-
              tar device connection management software. The DECdevice
              DAS emulates the memory of a simple manufacturing device
              for testing applications using BASEstar device connec-
              tion management functionality.

              BASEstar device access software is available for lead-
              ing industrial control devices from many vendors. In ad-
              dition, BASEstar technical documentation explains how to
              develop DAS modules for any plant device.

           o  Library Management

              The BASEstar library system provides BASEstar users with
              a mechanism for storing and tracking file development,
              controlling access to files, and transferring files to
              and from devices. The BASEstar library system is accessed
              through the menu interface and allows users to:

              o  Set library and default directories

              o  Compare, edit, purge, and list the files in a library

              o  Create, delete, and copy directories.

              o  Create, delete, and rename files.

              o  Transfer library files in and out of the library

              o  Assign files into specific groups for manipulation



                                       7

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


              o  Upload, download, and compare files, or groups of files,
                 between the VAX host and a plant device

           The BASEstar library system provides a number of device com-
           munication features. Using the library, programs can be down-
           loaded from the library to a device. Conversely, programs
           can also be uploaded from a device into the BASEstar library
           system to be stored as the latest production version. BASEs-
           tar library management software can also be used to compare
           the version of a file stored on a programmable device with
           a version of the file stored in the library.

           BASEstar library functions used with plant devices require
           installation of library, device connection management, and
           device access software for each node targeted to perform de-
           vice communication functions. The BASEstar library system
           supports communication with devices on the local node. Files
           in the library system on a node are referenced by the li-
           brary system on that node and device operations can be trans-
           ferred to and from devices on that node. The BASEstar li-
           brary system supports a maximum of 20 concurrent users and
           a maximum of 2,500 files, each consisting of a single gen-
           eration.

           Configuration Management

           o  Named Objects

              The BASEstar environment is a collection of named objects
              such as plant devices, users, and data point values (i.e.,
              alarm and status data, production counts, etc.). Manu-
              facturing applications need access to these resources by
              functional use rather than in a manner that is system-
              dependent and organized by the physical locations of ob-
              jects. BASEstar named objects including logical points,
              devices, and groups can be organized as collections and
              referenced by application programs using BASEstar group
              services. In addition, objects can be defined with lo-
              cal or global scope. Local objects are known only on the


                                       8

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


              local system. Global objects can be referenced by name
              by any application in a BASEstar domain.

           o  Distributed Capabilities

              BASEstar system objects are defined with a characteris-
              tic known as "scope" indicating how they can be accessed
              within a BASEstar network. BASEstar objects with a lo-
              cal scope are known by name only on systems where they
              were defined. BASEstar objects with a global scope can
              be accessed by any application within a BASEstar domain
              by referencing the object name only. Local objects can
              also be referenced by any application within a BASEstar
              domain, but can only be referenced remotely by specify-
              ing the node name along with the object name.

           o  Security

              BASEstar software offers security through access control
              lists (ACLs) which can be assigned to BASEstar objects
              such as systems, users, devices, and points. VMS rights
              identifiers in conjunction with ACLs provide a means to
              grant or deny access to an object for a specific user or
              group of users. BASEstar security allows a system man-
              ager to provide security only where it is needed. Access
              between BASEstar systems can also be restricted where iso-
              lation of BASEstar systems is required.

           o  Event Logging

              BASEstar event logging provides the ability to centrally
              record BASEstar application, system, and network events
              such as object definitions, point value changes, down-
              loads to device memory, as well as errors and other di-
              agnostic information. Events can be logged from an ap-
              plication program, as well as the menu interface and CLI.
              In addition, software developers can retrieve the text
              of an event message and use it for system integration and
              debugging purposes.


                                       9

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           o  System Configuration and Tuning

              BASEstar software uses a system parameter database to size
              memory resident database sections, select performance trade-
              offs, and alter the customizable characteristics of a BASEs-
              tar system. These parameters can be changed using the BASEs-
              tar CLI.
              BASEstar software has command procedures for tuning BASEs-
              tar systems. When run on a fully-configured VAX host, the
              procedure analyzes current VMS resource utilization and
              provides suggested values for SYSGEN and BASEstar param-
              eter settings, as well as VMS process quota settings. A
              system manager can use the suggested values as guidelines
              in setting parameters to maximize system resource uti-
              lization.
              For system analysis purposes, BASEstar software has two
              monitor utilities supplying configurable, continuously
              updated displays on video terminals. Monitor BASEstar pro-
              vides data to facilitate the tuning and optimization of
              processes running in the BASEstar environment. Monitor
              Port displays usage data for all message ports defined
              on the BASEstar system.

           Interfaces

           o  Menu Interface

              BASEstar software has a menu interface for users who need
              to manage BASEstar library files or communicate with plant
              devices. The BASEstar menu interface provides a means for
              integrating the menu systems of various applications into
              one menu hierarchy. Internationalization of the BASEs-
              tar menu interface is supported through text message util-
              ities to facilitate the translation of BASEstar user mes-
              sages into local languages.






                                      10

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           o  Command Line Interface (CLI)

              The BASEstar CLI is a DCL-like interface for use by sys-
              tem managers, process engineers, and application program-
              mers. Commands are provided for performing general op-
              erations such as BASEstar object configuration and man-
              agement, and for system operations such as defining se-
              curity, displaying BASEstar memory, and replicating a BASEs-
              tar system.

           o  Application Programming Interface (API)

              BASEstar software's application programming interface al-
              lows software programmers to create and integrate man-
              ufacturing applications using BASEstar functions. Through
              the use of the API, BASEstar software can be completely
              embedded within an integrated manufacturing system.

           INSTALLATION

           Digital recommends that a customer's first purchase of this
           software product include Digital Installation Services. These
           services provide for installation of the software product
           by an experienced Digital Software Specialist.

           For subsequent purchases of this product, only experienced
           customers should attempt installation. Digital recommends
           that all other customers purchase Digital's Installation Ser-
           vices.

           Customer Responsibilities

           Before installation of the software, the customer must:

           o  Previously have installed all requisite software and hard-
              ware including terminals.





                                      11

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           o  Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mu-
              tually agreed by Digital and the customer, all hardware,
              communication facilities and terminals that are to be used
              during installation.

           Delays caused by any failure to meet the responsibilities
           will be charged at the then prevailing rate for time and ma-
           terials.

































                                      12

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processors and/or configurations as specified in the Sys-
           tem Support Addendum (SSA 33.17.02-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VAX FMS is required only if the Menu System will be used.
              It is not required for basic BASEstar operation.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and
           required versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 33.17.02-
           x).

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses:

           BASEstar for VMS: QL-YU9A*-**
           BASEstar Runtime for VMS: QL-YUAA*-**

           Software Media:

           BASEstar for VMS: QA-YU9AA-**
           BASEStar Runtime for VMS: QA-YUAAA-**

           Software Documentation:

           BASEstar for VMS: QA-YU9AA-GZ
           BASEstar Runtime for VMS: QA-YUAAA-GZ

           Software Product Services:

           BASEstar for VMS: QT-YU9A*-**
           BASEstar Runtime for VMS: QT-YUAA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

                                      13

 



           BASEstar for VMS, Version 3.1               SPD 33.17.02


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®    MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpo-
                ration.

           ®    UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX Sytem Labora-
                tories, Inc.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, BASEstar, VAX, VMS, MicroVAX,
                VAXstation, VAXft, CI, DECwindows and VAXserver are
                trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

                                      14
