 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  EDCS II, Version 2.1                 SPD 26.39.04

     DESCRIPTION

     The Electronic Data Control System II (EDCS II) is an inte-
     gration tool that provides tracking, access control, change
     notification, and archiving of data across a network regard-
     less of the application that was used to generate the data.
     EDCS II manages important information about the documents it
     is controlling. EDCS II manages non-electronic data such as
     design drawings stored on microfilm or hardcopy. In addition,
     it manages the same files electronically. It provides revision
     tracking of work in progress, work in review, and released doc-
     uments. EDCS II provides an automatic notification capability
     that maintains lists of persons affected by changes and informs
     them of the current status.

     EDCS II is a management tool that enables users to efficiently
     share data. It frees users from concerns over the existence of
     multiple originals, latest revisions, and change notification
     issues. EDCS II uses a Client/Server Architecture where the
     client provides the user interface and connects to the server,
     which performs all data management tasks.

     EDCS II supports several interfaces for integration. For the
     end-user, EDCS II comes with both a terminal and DECwindows
     interface providing a common menu system for both character
     cell terminals and workstations. For system integrators, EDCS
     II has a complete, callable interface providing a mechanism
     to integrate EDCS II into any application suite. Command line
     interface is also supported.


                                  DIGITAL                  April 1991

                                                          AE-HV23E-TE

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04



     Features

     o  File Management

        -  Configuration Control

        -  Hierarchical Data Structures

        -  Unlimited User Definable Attributes

     o  Version Control

     o  Access Control

     o  Automatic Notification of Changes

     o  Configurable Review Manager

     o  History

     o  Archive and Retrieve

     o  Query and Database Access

        -  4GL Querying Capabilities

     o  Distributed Architecture

     o  Ability to Manage Heterogeneous Data

     o  Four Types of Interfaces

        -  Callable Interface

        -  DCL command line

        -  DECwindows Menus

        -  Terminals Menus (DECforms)

     File Management

     EDCS II manages the creation, use, modification, and storage of
     files. The user can also track the hierarchical relationships
     these files have to one another. The simplest entity EDCS II
     tracks is called an element. A collection of elements is a
     group. Users can define data relationships to represent part

                                     2

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04



     assemblies and sub-assemblies of a product or other collections
     of data. EDCS II also allows users to create dependencies for
     the purpose of notification, which are file relationships that
     are not hierarchical.

     When using EDCS II to track files, the user will know who cre-
     ated the files, when they were created, what changes have been
     made, and where the file is stored. The user can also track in-
     formation about their files by defining attributes. For example,
     an attribute might indicate what language the file is in, or
     what material the part in the file is made of.

     EDCS II can also manage paper documents or aperture cards by
     storing pointers to offline data. In this way, the user can
     monitor the project development electronically and manage hard-
     copy data.

     Version Control

     Every time an entity is changed in EDCS II, a new generation
     is created. EDCS II keeps copies of each successive generation
     and gives each new entity a generation number. Users are able
     to find out what the latest generation is and can view the lat-
     est version. EDCS II provides the latest version automatically,
     unless the user specifies otherwise. EDCS II records all opera-
     tions on entities and keeps a detailed history of transactions.

     Access Control

     With EDCS II, the user can maintain a double security system.
     Access control is assigned to the entity and specifies whether
     a user can read, make changes on, or delete an entity. When a
     change is being made, EDCS II prevents other users from updating
     the same file; however, the file can still be viewed.

     Privileges are assigned to each account. There are six privilege
     levels associated with user type (these privileges are cumu-
     lative). The privilege level assigned to each user determines
     whether the user is allowed to view, create, change, or delete
     data.

                                     3

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04



     Automatic Notification of Changes

     The user can set up automatic notification through the use of
     mailing lists. This ensures that project members in different
     departments or locations learn about important changes as soon
     as they occur.

     Configurable Review Manager

     The Review Manager in EDCS II enables users to review completed
     work and approve or disapprove it. This allows project members
     to be certain that all the appropriate team members have re-
     viewed the data. A review leader plans the review and creates
     the review process by assigning review teams and a review path.
     Team members review the entity and register their opinion. The
     review can be configured as teams on serial paths, or levels, or
     several teams may conduct the review in parallel.

     History

     EDCS II tracks information about entities and maintains an audit
     trail on the entities it manages. The user can obtain all the
     information kept in the Rdb/VMS database and can sort it in
     different ways, such as how many entities a user has created or
     how many entities have the same attribute.

     Archive and Retrieve

     When a file is no longer needed online, EDCS II allows the
     user to archive those files to other storage devices, while
     it retains the history of the file online.

     Query and Database Access

     Powerful and comprehensive SHOW commands allow the user to
     display formatted information on entities and their charac-
     teristics, as well as access and mailing lists, user account
     information, or the reviews in progress. EDCS II has a callable
     interface for added reporting capabilities that can be used
     to return user-customized information. Information can also be

                                     4

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04



     accessed directly from the database using SQL or other query
     languages.

     Distributed Architecture

     EDCS II consists of server software and client software. A
     user may issue commands from any node in a particular network
     that has the EDCS II client software installed. The server
     processes all of the commands and communicates back to the
     users. The information about the files (meta-data) is managed in
     the Rdb/VMS database. The electronic files are stored in RMS.
     Non-resident files are tracked by use of pointers.

     Ability to Manage Heterogeneous Data

     EDCS II is an application-independent file manager. The system
     is capable of managing electronically formatted data or hardcopy
     data such as paper documents or fiche cards.

     Four Types of Interfaces

     EDCS II provides four options to the user for interfacing with
     EDCS II. There are two menu interfaces; one that runs under
     DECwindows on workstations, and a similar interface (DECforms)
     for character cell terminals. For the more advanced user, EDCS
     II commands can be executed at DCL. For those users who are
     interested in tailoring EDCS II to their specific environment, a
     callable interface is provided. The callable interface adheres
     to the VMS Operating System calling standards. Fully supported
     languages are: BASIC, FORTRAN, C, BLISS-32, Pascal, and PL1.

     Documentation

     o  EDCS II User's Guide

     o  EDCS II Reference Manual (Bookreader format, on-line only)

     o  EDCS II Administrator's Guide

     o  EDCS II Installation Guide

     o  EDCS II Programmer's Guide

                                     5

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04



     o  EDCS II Pocket Reference Guide

     EDCS II Client Option

     The purchase of an EDCS II Client Software License is manda-
     tory each time an EDCS II Client is purchased. DECnet must be
     installed on each CPU Executing EDCS II software.

     The EDCS II client option provides the user on a remote VMS
     system with the EDCS II client software needed to interface with
     the EDCS II server.

     HELP

     Online HELP is available in EDCS II.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.39.04-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

     For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

     VMS Operating System
     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Rdb/VMS

     For Workstations Running VWS:

     VMS Operating System
     VMS Workstation Software
     DECnet-VAX VAX Rdb/VMS

     For Workstations Running DECwindows:

     VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
     dows)
     DECnet-VAX

                                     6

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04



     Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.39.04-x) for avail-
     ability and required versions of prerequisite/optional software
     and for information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.


     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Server:

     Software Licenses: QL-518A*-**
     Software Media: QA-518A*-**
     Software Documentation: QA-518AA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-518A*-**

     Client:

     Software Licenses: QL-380A*-**
     Software Product Services: QT-380A*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     This layered product support the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity.

     License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity
     basis.


                                     7

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04



     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SSA
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     EDCS now has two DECstart service offerings. The DECstart ser-
     vices familiarize the customer with the EDCS II system software
     and provide orientation and hands-on experience for the cus-
     tomer's staff. The two services offered are: DECstart (QS-518AA-
     4R), which provides basic installation and start-up services
     over a ten day period; and DECstart Plus (QS-518AA-45), which
     includes DECstart with additional customization for two weeks
     in a subsequent session. Additional customization services (QS-
     518AA-4T) are sold separately as well. EDCS II DECstart Service
     is available throughout the U.S. during normal working hours of
     the local Digital Software Services office. EDCS II sales re-
     quire purchase of DECstart Services except with signed customer
     waiver.

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     System Support Addendum of this SPD.







                                     8

 


     EDCS II, Version 2.1                                SPD 26.39.04




     [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, DECforms, DECnet, DECnet-VAX, DECstart,
          DECwindows, EDCS, MicroVAX, VAX, VAX DATATRIEVE, VAX TEAM-
          DATA, VAX RALLY, VAX FORTRAN, VAX C, VAX BLISS-32, VAX BA-
          SIC, VAX Pascal, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation,
          and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

































                                     9
