 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DEC Realtime Test Integrator  SPD 28.30.08
                          for VMS, Version 2.1

           DESCRIPTION

           DEC Realtime Test Integrator (RT Integrator) for VMS[*] is
           an icon-based, graphical programming environment utilizing
           the subroutine libraries Laboratory Input/Output (LIO), Lab-
           oratory Signal Processing (LSP), and Laboratory Graphics Pack-
           age (LGP) of VAXlab Software Library (VSL). Instead of us-
           ing a conventional programming language, users create and
           run realtime (data acquisition, IEEE-488 and RS-232 instru-
           ment control, test and measurement) applications by draw-
           ing them graphically as flow diagrams.

           Each DEC RT Integrator icon represents a function such as
           an analog or digital input, an arithmetic operation, or a
           logical function. The application is built by using the point-
           and-click method now standard in graphical user interfaces.
           By pointing and clicking the mouse, icons are moved from the
           libraries to the worksurface and then connected to the icons
           with either data flow or signal flow lines. Once the icons
           have been set up, the application is ready to run.

           The worksurface acts as a graphical editor, enabling users
           to move, copy, delete, add, cut, and paste icons represent-
           ing devices and sections of code. This allows the user to
           create and change applications more quickly than with tra-
           ditional programming languages.

           _________________

         [*] Formerly VAXlab Software Library


                                    DIGITAL                July 1991

                                                         AE-PEHMD-TE

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           Each icon has a set-up menu that allows customization of its
           function for the application. Once built, the application
           can be saved and restored without repeating the set-up op-
           erations. Since the configuration is saved as an ASCII text
           file, it can be mailed to any other system running DEC RT
           Integrator and restored there. This feature allows users to
           build an application on a VMS system and transport it to an
           ULTRIX system (if the ULTRIX version of DEC RT Integrator
           uses icons that are available with both operating systems),
           or vice versa, and run it with few modifications.

           DEC RT Integrator extends its capabilities by allowing the
           user to create and modify icons by following a template and
           detailed instructions. Since all icons are modular functions,
           the individually created icons can be used in all future ap-
           plications.

           By putting icons together and shrinking them to form a sin-
           gle icon, macros can be built and manipulated like any other
           individual icon. This feature allows the user to create higher
           order representations of an application from basic build-
           ing blocks.

           For any DEC RT Integrator application, a control panel can
           be created using the data display and user input icons. The
           control panel is a simple user interface representing an in-
           strument control panel that novice users and non-programmers
           can use to interact with the application. Little knowledge
           of DEC RT Integrator is required to run an application us-
           ing the control panel. Building the control panel requires
           only selecting the appropriate icons and positioning the user
           input devices on the control panel surface.

           Every application has two conceptual views: a data flow view
           and a signal flow view. DEC RT Integrator allows users to
           switch between both views with the click of a mouse button.
           In the data flow view, the connections between icons rep-
           resent the flow of data through the application. The sig-
           nal flow view displays the application's logic structure.


                                       2

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           Context-sensitive, on-line HELP makes the software environ-
           ment easy to learn. Using the point-and-click method, HELP
           is provided on the specific icon selected.

           DEC RT Integrator was designed to simplify IEEE-488 instru-
           ment control. The user directly programs the instrument and
           needs no knowledge of the bus itself. String manipulation
           and other support icons simplify the construction of com-
           mand strings. The service request (SRQ) can be detected as
           a signal in the signal flow view, and the SRQ status byte
           is available as data in the data flow view. These mechanisms
           allow instrument events to be detected and serviced with the
           same graphical programming techniques used to create the rest
           of the application.

           DEC RT Integrator allows users to monitor alpha-numeric data
           as it is being collected and display it as a line plot, point
           plot, or scrolling text. The user can insert the display icons
           in any path of the data flow diagram and use them as a probe
           to trace the data as it flows through the application. In
           addition to monitoring the data, the user can also gener-
           ate PostScript® files of the plots for hardcopy records.

           In addition to the traditional mathematical and trigonomet-
           ric operations, there are icons to perform noise filtering,
           scaling, multiplexing, or signal processing functions such
           as Fast Fourier Transformations (FFTs) and power spectrum
           analysis. A range check icon allows the user to determine
           if a data value falls outside a given range and take cor-
           rective action.

           Time generation functions allow the user to trigger appli-
           cations or events using either a realtime clock or a sys-
           tem clock. A time stamp can also be put on each data value
           as it is stored to a file.






                                       3

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           DEC RT Integrator software is compatible with DECwindows so
           applications can be controlled from or displayed on any work-
           station or terminal that is compatible with the X Window Sys-
           tem.

           In addition, the LIO subroutines have the capability to con-
           trol the Preston Scientific GMAD & EMAD-series analog in-
           put subsystems when they are interfaced to the Q-bus via the
           DRQ3B or DRV11-WA.

           The LIO subroutines permit the user to:

           o  Attach a device and set it up for QIO, connect-to-interrupt
              I/O, or mapped I/O

           o  Specify and verify the setup parameters of an I/O device

           o  Release a buffer from the user queue to the device queue

           o  Read a buffer with data from a device

           o  Write a buffer of data to the device

           o  Obtain a buffer from a device queue and put it in the user
              queue

           o  Enqueue multiple buffers to a device for continuous data
              transfer

           o  Detach a device and shut down the I/O process in an or-
              derly fashion

           The LSP subroutines perform data format translation, Fast
           Fourier Transformations, signal filtering, interval histogram-
           ming, and thermocouple voltage-to-temperature conversions.
           Routines are also included to calculate power spectra, cross-
           correlations, auto-correlations, and phase angle and mod-
           ulus spectra.



                                       4

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           The Fourier transform routines handle both real and complex
           data in one or two dimensions in both the forward and in-
           verse directions. Filtering algorithms include simple poly-
           nomial filtering, nonrecursive filtering, and spectral win-
           dowing.

           The LGP subroutines are used to plot data in the form of 2-
           D, 3-D, histogram, contour, and realtime plots. Under a DECwin-
           dows environment, the computations may be done on a client
           while graphics are displayed on a workstation server. The
           graphs can be output as DDIF files for use with other ap-
           plications, such as DECwrite.

           The LGP subroutines allow the user to:

           o  Create a 2-D linear/logarithmic axis system and plot an
              array

           o  Update a 2-D plot by erasing old data and adding new data

           o  Plot additional data sets on a previously defined graph

           o  Plot a previously stored metafile

           o  Plot a point in one of 10 geometric shapes

           o  Print the screen on an attached printer

           o  Produce a hard copy of the plot displayed on the screen

           o  Create a 2-D contour projection

           o  Add an additional contour chart to the existing one

           o  Create a shaded contour projection

           o  Draw a histogram

           o  Write a text string to a specified location on a plot

           o  Plot standard deviation markers on data points

           o  Plot a 3-D array with hidden line removal

           o  Set up the axis system for a 3-D graph

                                       5

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           o  Clear all or part of a window

           o  Obtain the coordinates of a cursor or input device

           o  Compute the autoscaling parameters for linear and log-
              arithmic plots

           o  Fit a cubic spline to a set of data points

           o  Return the value selected from a menu

           o  Prompt the user for a user string

           o  Collect a series of x-y pairs from an input device

           o  Collect a series of values with a specified range from
              a valuator type input device

           In addition, users can add support for any foreign device
           for which a GKS handler exists.

           DEC Realtime Test Integrator for VMS supports the IEZ11, which
           is an IEEE-488 bus-controller for Digital workstations with
           a SCSI interface. DEC RT Integrator for VMS manages all SCSI
           and RS232 interactions, allowing the user to communicate di-
           rectly with the IEEE-488 bus. This product also supports the
           VAXBI clock.

           Multiple plotting windows are supported on all terminals.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver, or VAXstation configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 28.30.08-x).







                                       6

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

           VMS Operating System

           For Workstations Running VWS:

           (Required to use the LIO realtime plotting device. The icon-
           based user interface is not available to customers who choose
           the VWS windowing system.)

           VMS Operating System
           VMS Workstation Software

           For Workstations Running DECwindows:

           (Required to use the icon-based user interface.)

           VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
           dows)
           DEC GKS for VMS
           VAX C is required if the user is developing custom icons.

           The DRB32 VMS Drivers are a prerequisite for LIO support of
           the DRB32 and DRB32W devices and I/O subsystems that inter-
           face to the VAXBI through the DRB32 and DRB32W.

           The RTC01 BI clock is a prerequisite to use BI devices through
           LIO I/O support.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 28.30.08-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
           dows.






                                       7

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Development Option:

           The Development Kit allows the user to develop realtime ap-
           plications including data acquisition, IEEE-488 and RS-232
           instrument control, and test and measurement. After an ap-
           plication has been developed, it can run on a system which
           has either the Development Kit or the Runtime Kit installed.

           Software License: QL-YWQA9-QB
           Software Media: QA-YWQAA-**
           Software Documentation: QA-YWQAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-YWQA*-**

           Runtime Option:

           The Runtime Kit allows the user to run an application but
           not to develop one.

           Software Licenses: QL-B15A9-J*
           Software Media: QA-B15AA-**
           Software Product Services: QT-B15A*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on li-
              censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price
              book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.







                                       8

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1

           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

           This layered product supports the License Management Facil-
           ity.

           License units for this product are allocated on a CPU ca-
           pacity basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information on Digital's licensing policies, con-
           tact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.

           ®   HP is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard
               Company.









                                       9

 



           DEC Realtime Test Integrator                SPD 28.30.08
           for VMS, Version 2.1


           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, BI, CI, DEC, DECwindows, DECwrite,
               DRB32, LA, LA50, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LVP16, Q-bus,
               MicroVAX, ULTRIX, UNIBUS, VAXcluster, VAXserver,
               VAXstation, VAX, VAXft, VAXlab, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC,
               VAXBI, VAX C, VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal, VMS, VT,
               VT330, and VT340 are trademarks of Digital Equipment
               Corporation.

































                                      10
