 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office System Server and     SPD
                         ALL-IN-1 Core Services for OpenVMS VAX,
 27.30.08                Version 3.0

 DESCRIPTION

 ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office System (IOS) Server for OpenVMS VAX is a
 customizable, menu-oriented software product that provides generic of-
 fice applications, a facility for integrating other business-oriented
 applications and provides ALL-IN-1 IOS base services to Microsoft[R]
 Windows[TM] and Apple[R] Macintosh[R] desktops, such as those utiliz-
 ing TeamLinks Clients.

 ALL-IN-1 Core Services for OpenVMS VAX is the full ALL-IN-1 Integrated
 Office System server product less the license to use the WPS-PLUS word
 processing editor and the Time Management (TM) subsystem. It is tai-
 lored to supporting TeamLinks V2.0 Windows and Macintosh clients and
 VT users who do not wish to employ WPS-PLUS for document creation and
 editing or TM.

 ALL-IN-1 unifies applications and services into an easy-to-use infor-
 mation system and provides facilities for mixed groups of VT and Team-
 Links users to enable group-working and document sharing.

 Through ALL-IN-1 electronic mail and links into Digital Equipment Cor-
 poration's networking facilities, users can transport or receive in-
 formation that has been created on desktop, departmental, and corpo-
 rate systems.

 ALL-IN-1 consists of:

 o  ALL-IN-1 Office Applications

 o  ALL-IN-1 TeamLinks Connection V2.0 for OpenVMS VAX V3.0

                               DIGITAL                 November 1993

                                                         AE-HI10K-TE


 

 o  Message Router OpenVMS Gateway (includes both the Message Router
    and the Gateway to OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility)

 o  VAX FMS (includes both FMS and Forms Language Translator)

 o  ALL-IN-1 Group Conferencing (based on DEC Notes and ALL-IN-1/DEC
    Notes Programming Interface)

 o  CDA Converter Library for OpenVMS (required for use with CDA Sup-
    port)

 o  ALL-IN-1 CDA Interoperability kit

 o  ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for OpenVMS VAX V1.2 (Note: rights to use
    only; media sold separately)

 ALL-IN-1 provides an environment in which users access applications
 in a consistent manner. A user's documents are stored in the File Cab-
 inet where they are accessed from the office applications.

 The generic office applications are built upon the base system facil-
 ities. These facilities are available when customizing or developing
 applications that are to be consistent with the ALL-IN-1 environment.

 Office Applications

 File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

 The ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet is similar in function to a standard office
 filing cabinet-drawers consist of documents contained within folders.
 Folders are in alphabetical order and documents within the folders are
 in order by date and time of creation. The latest document is listed
 first, except for the INBOX where the latest document is listed last.

 All previously created folders are stored in the MAIN drawer, along
 with the messaging folders-INBOX, OUTBOX, CREATED, READ. Users can cre-
 ate other drawers, which can be shared or private.

 Document information (such as title, date created, document number,
 author, keywords, and type) is maintained in the File Cabinet. Facil-
 ities are provided for the user to maintain and manage the contents

                                  2


 

 of the File Cabinet. The user can print or delete more than one doc-
 ument at a time. Selection of the documents can be made with user-specified
 criteria.

 Documents (individual or by folder) can be refiled, cross-filed, or
 duplicated. Information such as title and associated keywords can be
 changed. When a document has multiple cross-filings within a single
 folder, only one copy of the document body is stored.

 Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket until the Waste-
 basket is emptied.

 A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of documents or con-
 tents of the user's screen can be temporarily placed. Contents of the
 scratch pad can be inserted into a document, edited, printed, mailed,
 or read.

 The File Cabinet provides access to documents through a common mech-
 anism regardless of the format of the documents. Support is provided
 as standard for ASCII, DX, and WPS-PLUS formats.

 ALL-IN-1 provides a feature that allows the user and system manager
 to archive/restore any ALL-IN-1 document from the shared areas or from
 a user's File Cabinet. Archiving of the same document by multiple users
 will result in multiple copies of that document being archived.

 Shared Filing

 Users can create shared drawers to allow other users to read and edit
 shared documents. Access controls are provided so that the drawer owner
 can specify which users are allowed to access a drawer and the oper-
 ations they are allowed to perform in it. Concurrency control ensures
 that certain actions are prohibited while a user is modifying a shared
 document. For example, while a user is editing a shared document, other
 users attempting to edit that document will be informed the document
 is in use and who is editing the document.




                                  3


 

 The Reservation feature enables a TeamLinks user to reserve a docu-
 ment in the File Cabinet before uploading the document to the user's
 PC or Mac, thereby indicating to all other users who have access to
 that document that the document is in the process of being modified.
 Anyone subsequently attempting to modify the document is warned that
 it is reserved and that only Read Access is permitted. Only when the
 reservee returns the modified document and removes the Reservation,
 can others access the document with more than Read Access.

 Shared Filing links all users' File Cabinets on a system or across sys-
 tems via the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option. Refer to the ALL-IN-1
 Distributed Sharing Option Software Product Description (SPD 36.79.xx).

 Group Services

 Users can define a set of users as a group. Multiple groups can be de-
 fined. Groups can be assigned access privileges to shared documents
 or drawers. Members can be added or deleted from a group and associ-
 ated access rights are automatically assigned or removed.

 TeamLinks V2.0 users can List Groups and List Members only.

 SFCP Migration

 A utility program converts Shared File Cabinet Prototype drawers into
 shared drawers. Each of the resultant shared drawers is added to the
 File Cabinet of those users who have been granted access. The user's
 access rights are preserved.

 Electronic Messaging

 The Electronic Messaging application provides a means of exchanging
 messages with other users. The user can create, edit, print, delete,
 read, and send messages. The message header (which contains addressee(s),
 subject, and mail classification) and the text of the message can be
 edited.

 When creating a message, the user specifies the addressee(s) to whom
 the message is to be sent and, optionally, any addressee(s) to receive
 copies of the message. To save time with addressing, the user can cre-
 ate distribution lists or nicknames (seen only by the user).

                                  4


 

 Incoming messages can be forwarded and/or answered. Answers can be di-
 rected to the sender only, or to all the recipients of the message.
 Confirmation that the addressee(s) has received and/or read the mes-
 sage can be requested. Priority for delivery of the message can be as-
 signed as Express, First Class, or Second Class. The user can spec-
 ify that the sending of a message be deferred to a time chosen by the
 user.

 Messages appear and are treated as documents to the user. ALL-IN-1 main-
 tains folders for incoming, read, created, and sent messages. Once a
 message is sent, one copy of that message is shared (per system or clus-
 ter) by the sender and receiver(s) and cannot be edited. Messages can
 be refiled and cross-filed in the user's File Cabinet. Documents al-
 ready in the File Cabinet can be sent to other users.

 The user can choose to have all incoming messages automatically for-
 warded to another user. Alternatively, the user can create a reply mes-
 sage that is sent in response to all incoming mail (for example, "I
 am out of the office until. . .").

 Shared Filing within Electronic Messaging ensures that operations be-
 have correctly in shared and distributed environments. Mail Operations
 always take place in the user's MAIN drawer, whatever the previous con-
 text.

 An index of attachments to a message can be displayed and a set of op-
 tions is provided for printing or reading individual attachments. At-
 tachments can be filed as revisable text or as messages which can be
 answered or forwarded.

 The Set Mail User (SMU) Option allows a user to perform many mail op-
 erations on behalf of another user, such as a secretary for a manager.
 The Grant Mail Access (GMA) Option lets users specify other users who
 may process their mail. The mail header displays both users' names when
 a mail message is sent.





                                  5


 

 Addressing enhancements include user interface improvements; the abil-
 ity to create a distribution list using the list of addresses from a
 received Message Header; and improved nickname support-longer nick-
 names, easier manipulation of the long mail addresses common on mes-
 sages sent or received via gateways to other mail systems, and the abil-
 ity to create a nickname from the sender of a message.

 Exchange of messages with ALL-IN-1 users on other systems in a DEC-
 net network is provided by Message Router for OpenVMS VAX. Message Router
 OpenVMSmail Gateway allows ALL-IN-1 users to exchange messages with
 users of the OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility. Refer to the VAX Message
 Router for OpenVMS VAX Software Product Description (SPD 26.33.xx).

 In addition X.400 (1984) P2 attributes are supported between ALL-IN-1
 IOS and MAILbus400 Message Transfer Agent for OpenVMS VAX, OpenVMS Al-
 pha AXP, OSF/1[R] Alpha AXP, and ULTRIX systems over DECnet OSI Phase
 V.

 ALL-IN-1 TeamLinks Connection V2.0 for OpenVMS VAX V3.0

 ALL-IN-1 TeamLinks Connection V2.0 (TLC V2.0) for OpenVMS VAX V3.0 is
 included in every ALL-IN-1 IOS V3.0 kit and is an integral part of the
 ALL-IN-1 Server option that provides ALL-IN-1 workgroup services to
 TeamLinks V2.0 Clients. This server enables TeamLinks users to gain
 access to the File Cabinet drawers, folders and documents, messaging
 service, and distribution lists with minimum retraining for VT users
 familiar with ALL-IN-1.

 Users employing Windows and Macintosh desktops with their attendant
 choice of personal productivity applications available for these plat-
 forms can transfer document types of any description to the ALL-IN-1
 File Cabinet for secure storage and send these documents via the mes-
 saging service using existing distribution lists. The TLC V2.0 enables
 this form of working, which combines user choice with proven system
 robustness and minimum disruption to existing ALL-IN-1 installations.
 TLC V2.0 and ALL-IN-1 allows users of heterogeneous clients (VT, DOS,
 Windows, Mac) to co-exist and fully participate in workgroup activ-
 ities.

 Directories

                                  6


 

 The Directories subsystem provides access and maintenance to direc-
 tories available to the user. The user can view a directory, maintained
 by the system manager, that contains telephone numbers and addresses.
 A directory of all the ALL-IN-1 IOS users can also be viewed. Facil-
 ities are provided for the user to maintain and view a personal tele-
 phone directory, nicknames, and distribution lists.

 With the installation of Distributed Directory Service, ALL-IN-1 pro-
 vides the user with the ability to perform mail directory searches on
 defined criteria such as name, department, location, and organization.

 Customization and Application Development

 For VT users ALL-IN-1 supports a form-driven system that uses VAX FMS
 (Forms Management System). For more information on VAX FMS, refer to
 the Software Product Description (SPD 26.10.xx). [Note: Not relevant
 to TeamLinks V2.0 users.]

 In conjunction with VAX FMS and VAX FMS Form Language Translator, the
 ALL-IN-1 Application Development utilities allow changes to be made
 to the ALL-IN-1 system. ALL-IN-1 can be altered to fit customer-specific
 requirements and provides a platform for application development and
 integration. ALL-IN-1 provides a programming interface to common func-
 tions and mechanisms to pass control from one application or function
 to another (i.e., Flow Control). These functions have been enhanced
 in ALL-IN-1.

 Customization Management (CM)

 Note: Not accessible from TeamLinks V2.0 Clients.

 Customization Management provides support for additional element types.
 All customizable element types that ship with ALL-IN-1 IOS are sup-
 ported, as well as support for customer's own element types.

 Installing and managing customizations to applications is supported
 through the introduction of application areas. Support for customized
 corporate systems is provided through the use of application areas.
 In addition, transferring customizations and applications from one sys-
 tem to another is also greatly enhanced.

                                  7


 

 Context-sensitive menu options are available, which allow the display
 and choice of only those menu options relevant to a particular ele-
 ment type.

 Customization management provides enhanced features for the program-
 mer and manager. This includes improved reporting, notifying the man-
 ager pending request, and request completion notifications. ALL-IN-1
 IOS also introduces the concept of Application Maintainer, so that the
 ALL-IN-1 System Manager does not have to be solely responsible for the
 management of new or modified applications.

 The features within Customization Management allow system managers and
 application programmers to modify their standard ALL-IN-1 system in
 a controlled and disciplined manner. It provides the ability to cre-
 ate, modify, index, and control customizations as well as providing
 a modification history record for each customization.

 System Management (SM)

 Note: Not accessible from TeamLinks V2.0 Clients.

 The System Management utilities are used to perform routine mainte-
 nance of ALL-IN-1, such as scheduling and rescheduling of housekeep-
 ing procedures, management of printers, direct maintenance of network
 and DDS profiles, metering, and quota management of the shared area.
 A system manager has the option of creating a non-OpenVMS privileged
 system administrator for the purpose of administering the management
 of the following: user accounts (create, delete, move, rename), doc-
 ument archiving, system distribution lists, scheduling of housekeep-
 ing tasks, monitoring of ALL-IN-1 exception and information reports,
 and the initiation of ALL-IN-1 shutdown.

 ALL-IN-1 supplies a metering facility that provides system managers
 the ability to collect resource usage within ALL-IN-1 sessions for pre-
 defined events. Application developers can define and create their own
 additional meters. Meters will record the number of times a meter is
 called, CPU usage, Direct I/O, Buffered I/O, and Page Faults. Metered
 events can also be collected by DECtrace, if it is installed on the
 system. This provides facilities for managing and reporting the in-
 formation collected.

                                  8


 

 Printing

 The Printing facility provides the user the ability to specify where
 a document is to be printed, the number of copies, and the output for-
 mat. The output can be directed to any of the printers available to
 the ALL-IN-1 IOS user, another document, or to the user's terminal.
 Documents that specify Runoff handling are automatically processed by
 Digital Standard Runoff (DSR) before output. Printing is handled in
 the background, freeing the terminal for other actions when interac-
 tion with the print formatter is not needed.

 Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports the doc-
 ument's final form format.

 Print and LPS print options (LPS20 and LPS40) can be specified dur-
 ing a print operation. System-defined and user-defined print styles
 can be utilized for improved ease-of-use. Throughput of jobs during
 a multiple print operation has been improved.

 Job Services

 Note: Not available from TeamLinks V2.0 Clients.

 ALL-IN-1 provides users the ability to perform operations on their jobs
 in print, batch, and server queues. Using the multiple select index-
 ing capability, users can get information on jobs, delete jobs, edit
 their attributes, and restart currently executing jobs.

 Management of queues and jobs can be performed within ALL-IN-1 IOS.
 Managers can assign one or more users to manage specific local queues.

 Profile

 Each ALL-IN-1 user has a user profile that contains information per-
 taining to the user.

 The user can access and modify part of their user profile including
 full name, address, telephone number, department, and title. In ad-
 dition, user preference information (such as work week and working hours,
 editing style, mail notification, and read receipt handling) can be
 modified.

                                  9


 

 The System Manager maintains information such as user privileges, de-
 fault directory, and form library access.

 Index Select

 In most instances, a user can create an index selection list by se-
 lecting or deselecting objects from the index. Operations (such as print,
 delete, cross-file, and so forth) can be performed on the list as if
 they were a single entity. An index menu lists the options available
 to the current selected index. Within an index, a user can scroll ei-
 ther forward or backward.

 International Support

 ALL-IN-1 is designed to support multilingual operations. This support
 is subject to availability of the specific translation (refer to the
 System Support Addendum, SSA 27.30.08-x). ALL-IN-1 can be deployed in
 a multilingual network and can support multilingual operations on a
 single system. However, all language kits, including U.S. English, must
 be the same version.

 Document Processing

 The Document Processing application enables VT and terminal emulation
 users to create, edit, print, delete, and read documents. The editor
 used is dependent upon the user's preference indicated in the User Pro-
 file. ALL-IN-1 IOS users have a choice of editing styles: EDT, TPU,
 WPS, and WPS-PLUS.

 Note: The license to use the WPS-PLUS editor is not included in the ALL-IN-1
 Core Services License V1.0, however existing WPS-PLUS documents can
 be read, formatted and printed; only the capability to create new WPS-PLUS
 documents is unlicensed. WPS-PLUS is not supported on Windows or Mac-
 intosh clients.

 EDT, TPU, and WPS are ASCII editors. EDT and TPU use keying conven-
 tions and terminology oriented toward the more technical user. WPS uses
 keying conventions and terminology that make it a subset of WPS-PLUS.
 WPS is available to users who have a word processing orientation but
 desire ASCII output.

                                 10


 

 The optionally installable WPS-PLUS for ALL-IN-1 IOS is Digital's full
 function word processor. This version significantly expands the ca-
 pabilities of WPS-PLUS by providing true proportional spacing, font
 selection, support for PostScript® output, a new multicolumn editor
 (up to 25 Left/Right margins within a ruler), the ability to create
 and/or edit up to 10 documents at one time. User enhancements include
 a more versatile status line, "Start" and "End" Control Blocks inserted
 together with a single keystroke, and many more.

 Highlights of WPS-PLUS are:

 o  Insert or Overstrike Mode

 o  User control of margins and tabs, including left-justified, right-
    justified, and decimal-aligned tabs

 o  Automatic Centering, Underlining, Bolding, Double Underscoring, Change
    Bars, and Redlining

 o  Technical Characters and Scientific Equations editing

 o  Support for Wide Documents, up to 256 characters

 o  Numbered Footnotes, Paragraph Numbering to nine levels, Automatic
    Table of Contents generation, Table of Authorities, and Word In-
    dexing

 o  Widow/Orphan control and No-break Blocks

 o  Column Cut and Paste

 o  List Processing and Sort to produce form letters and maintain mail-
    ing lists-background processing is supported

 o  Abbreviation and Library documents

 o  Two-dimensional Editor for creation of diagrams and equations

 Time Management

 Note: Not licensed by the ALL-IN-1 Core Services License V1.0.

                                 11


 

 Time Management offers the facility to maintain a personal calendar
 of events and tasks. An "Events at a Glance" screen gives the user an
 editable picture of the day's events, which makes it easy to make changes.
 Likewise, the "Tasks at a Glance" screen gives the user an editable
 picture of the tasks for the day. These pictures are combined on an
 "Events and Tasks" screen where other Time Management operations can
 be performed.

 Users can tailor Time Management and display only the screens and op-
 tions that are of interest to them.

 Users can schedule, reschedule, or cancel an event. In an event in-
 volving other attendees, Time Management uses the Electronic Messag-
 ing application to deliver meeting notifications and confirmations.
 Users can also reserve unavailable time on their calendars. An entry
 in the user's calendar can be marked confidential and other users can-
 not read the description of the entry. Recurring events can be sched-
 uled whereby an attendee's "Yes" reply schedules all occurrences of
 the meeting on the calendar.

 Time Management has the ability to perform a multinode scan. This scan
 will return a graph of potential attendees' free time prior to the schedul-
 ing of the meeting. It will scan both local and off-node calendars in
 real time.

 The Tasks facility is provided to track reminders, to-do lists, ac-
 tion items, and so forth. Tasks are not necessarily tied to a specific
 day or time of day. Tasks can be viewed by selection criteria such as
 open versus closed, a range of beginning dates, deadlines, and so forth.

 Note: The ALL-IN-1 Time Management user interface is not supported on
 Windows or Macintosh clients.

 Group Conferencing

 An ALL-IN-1 IOS user interface has been applied to Digital's DEC Notes
 application to provide the Group Conferencing feature. This feature
 gives users the ability to communicate on a many-to-many basis while
 taking advantage of ALL-IN-1's ease of use. Application developers can

                                 12


 

 benefit from DEC Notes being integrated at the API level in develop-
 ing business or professional-specific applications that can use this
 conferencing capability.

 Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Support

 ALL-IN-1 provides support for the following data types:

 o  DDIF-the standard CDA encoding format

 o  DOTS-the format for packing and transferring composite CDA docu-
    ments

 o  DTIF-the CDA encoding format for tables

 o  PS-the final form PostScript document format

 Users will be able to send and receive these document types in mail,
 store them in their Filing Cabinet, read, print, copy, and convert them.

 ALL-IN-1 allows the datatypes to be read, with the exception of PostScript.
 The quality of formatting of the displayed data depends on the CDA fa-
 cilities provided by the underlying OpenVMS system. ALL-IN-1 uses the
 CDA character cell formatter, which gives improved results with cor-
 rect formatting and the inclusion of externally referenced files.

 ALL-IN-1 will attempt to print CDA documents in PostScript if the des-
 tination printer is capable of it; otherwise, ALL-IN-1 will convert
 the document to ASCII text before printing.

 The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to/from the new
 datatypes.

 If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a standard editor,
 the normal handling will result in a message telling the user that the
 document format is not supported by the editor. However, the user can
 convert a CDA document into a suitable format for editing and then use
 the appropriate editor. Through conversion, there is a potential for
 formatting attributes to be lost.

                                 13


 

 CDA Base Services supports the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet, thus allowing
 documents live-linked by any CDA application. Users will also be able
 to unpack composite documents into the File Cabinet.

 Application programmers will have access to the CDA tools through the
 provision of API functions.

 Communications

 The Communications application enables users to access other computer
 systems without needing to understand anything about communication tech-
 nology.

 For more knowledgeable users, entire communications sessions can be
 automated through the use of Control Documents. (Control Documents are
 standard ALL-IN-1 documents that contain a set of special commands.)
 Connection to other computer systems is fully automated if autodial
 modems or hardwired connections are permitted. The connection is by
 means of an OpenVMS terminal port (RS232 type) and can be connected
 to any computer system supporting such terminal types.

 Facilities are also provided to transfer files to and from a DECmate
 II, a DECmate III, OpenVMS, and in or out of the user's File Cabinet.

 Desk Calculator

 Note: TeamLinks V2.0 Clients have access to standard Windows and Mac-
 intosh accessories instead of these functions.

 The Desk Calculator enables the user to perform interactive calcula-
 tions and include the results in documents. Desk Calculator operates
 in two modes: Calculator and Formula. Formula mode is used for com-
 plicated formulas that combine trigonometric and arithmetic functions.
 Calculator Mode is used for simple arithmetic computations. The al-
 ternate keypad is operated the same way as a standard calculator.

 Systemwide Features (Valid for VT Users)

 Menu Navigation for VT and Terminal Emulation Users

                                 14


 

 Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus. Experienced
 users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

 The user can interrupt their current activity to read a new mail mes-
 sage, display the current time, or to access Time Management, Direc-
 tories, Desk Calculator, and Scratch Pad.

 Users familiar with OpenVMS commands can have direct access to the com-
 mands without leaving ALL-IN-1.

 Two styles of user interface are provided. One interface uses menus
 similar to other ALL-IN-1 applications. The other interface (hard-copy
 mode) is utilized, for efficiency, mainly over dial-up lines. This mode
 does not display the full screen menu but displays the menu in a strip
 form.

 Help

 VT users can invoke Help for any part of ALL-IN-1 IOS by pressing the
 Help key. The Help facility provides basic information on the func-
 tion in question without the user having to reference the documenta-
 tion.

 For TeamLinks V2.0 users the standard F1 key provides Help in the Win-
 dows environment and Balloon Help in the Macintosh environment.

 On-line Training

 VT users can learn how to use the system using the on-line training
 facilities. Training leads the user through sets of interactive screens
 and explains how the various features of ALL-IN-1 work. A New Features
 module is provided to aid experienced ALL-IN-1 users.

 User-Defined Processes (Valid for VT users only)

 User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated key sequences.
 There is no limit to the number of UDPs or the number of keystrokes
 that can be stored in a UDP. One UDP can invoke another UDP.

 Document Handling for VT and Terminal Emulation Users

                                 15


 

 Document Reservation allows each user exclusive use of a document while
 editing.

 The Document handling model makes a clear distinction between revis-
 able and final form documents. The model provides clear separation of
 formatting and printing, so that formatting of documents can be per-
 formed separately from printing.

 The background formatter provides CDA formatting, which enables CDA
 formatting to be performed in both foreground and background.

 Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports the doc-
 ument's final form. If the destination does not support the final form,
 then, where possible, the document is converted to a format that is
 supported, or the user will be advised to print to a different printer.

 ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 1.2

 Note: Rights to use only are included; media is sold separately.

 ALL-IN-1 provides server support for DESKtops (Macintosh V6.X and DOS
 systems) by implementing client/server technology. The license for ALL-IN-1
 allows usage of the ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for OpenVMS VAX V1.2. The
 Media Kit must be ordered separately. For more details on the capa-
 bilities of the server and available clients, refer to the ALL-IN-1
 DESKtop Server for OpenVMS VAX Software Product Description (SPD 31.71.xx).

 IBM[R] 3270 Terminal Support

 ALL-IN-1 can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards on CUT mode
 terminals that are supported using the CMX04 option card in a DECserver
 550:

 o  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

 o  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

 o  102 Key Typewriter

 o  87 Key Typewriter

                                 16


 

 The ALL-IN-1 Kit contains a 3270 keyboard Quick Reference Card show-
 ing the ALL-IN-1 functions.

 Documentation

 The following documentation is standard with ALL-IN-1:

 o  Read Me First

 o  System Management Documentation

    -  Release Notes (on-line)

    -  ALL-IN-1 Installation Guide

    -  Differences from ALL-IN-1 V2.4 (on-line, part of the Conflict
       Checking and Resolution Tool (CART))

    -  Management Guide

    -  Mail Management Guide

    -  CDA Converter Library Documentation

    -  Message Router Documentation

    -  OpenVMSmail Gateway Documentation

    -  VAX FMS V2.4 Installation Guide

    -  DEC Notes Installation Guide

 o  Application Development Reference Guides

    -  Application Programming: Getting Started

    -  Application Programming: Guide

    -  Application Programming: Using Customization Management

    -  Application Programming: Reference Volume 1, 2

    -  Application Programming: FMS Reference

    -  Application Programming: User Interface Standards

    -  Application Programming: Mini Reference

    -  Application Programming: Index

                                 17


 

 o  General User Documentation

    -  ALL-IN-1 User's Handbook

    -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Mini Reference

    -  Keyboard Cards

 o  Super User Documentation

    -  ALL-IN-1 User's Reference

    -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS User's Reference

    -  ALL-IN-1 Administration Guide

    -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Printer Characteristics

    -  Keyboard Cards

    -  Making the Transition to Proportional Printing

 Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased separately.

 Customers wishing to modify the documentation to reflect the customiza-
 tion of their ALL-IN-1 system should contact their local Digital Sales
 Office for information.

 SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

 In order to facilitate customization of ALL-IN-1 IOS, several source
 code modules are provided on all available distribution media for this
 product. This source code is provided without any warranty of any kind,
 either express or implied.

 Note: VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language is required if .B32, .BLI,
 or .REQ modules are to be used in customizing ALL-IN-1 IOS. VAX BLISS-
 32 is not a prerequisite for the construction of site-defined func-
 tions.

                                 18


 

 INSTALLATION

 This software product will be installed by Digital at no additional
 charge if purchased concurrently with a Startup Service Package that
 includes installation service. Both the operating system and this prod-
 uct must be installed concurrently.

 Only customers with experience in managing OpenVMS and ALL-IN-1 should
 attempt installation of this product. Digital recommends that all other
 customers purchase Digital's Installation Services. These services pro-
 vide for installation of the software product by an experienced Dig-
 ital Software Specialist.

 The CART (Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool)

 This tool is included as part of the installation procedures, but should
 be run prior to the upgrade to ALL-IN-1. It examines the customiza-
 tions on the existing system and signals what changes are required to
 migrate applications and customizations. It contains a number of pro-
 cedures which check for changed messages, mandatory changes, and a check-
 list generated from the Differences document. An option allows the Dif-
 ferences document to be printed prior to an upgrade to ALL-IN-1 IOS.

 Co-existent Systems

 This facility allows the installation of ALL-IN-1 IOS on a system al-
 ready running either ALL-IN-1 V2.3 or V2.4. It allows customers to eval-
 uate new functionality and to plan the migration of their existing ap-
 plications. No sharing of data takes place, but the ALL-IN-1 IOS sys-
 tem is fully functional.

 Note: Co-existent systems cannot be merged. The ALL-IN-1 Installation
 Guide describes the proper procedure for transferring customizations.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.08-x).


                                 19


 

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Software requirements as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA
 27.30.08-x).

 Note: ALL-IN-1 IOS and ALL-IN-1 Core Services cannot coexist on the same
 system with ALL-IN-1 STARTER.

 COUNTRY COMPONENT SOFTWARE

 For information on country-specific modifications to this product, re-
 fer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.08-x).

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 ALL-IN-1 IOS for OpenVMS VAX V3.0

 Software Licenses: QL-AAA**-**
 Software Media: QA-AAA**-**
 Complete Documentation Kit: QA-AAA**-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-AAA**-**

 ALL-IN-1 Core Services V1.0 for OpenVMS VAX V3.0

 Software Licenses: QL-246**-**
 Software Media: QA-AAA**-**
 Complete Documentation Kit: QA-AAA**-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-AAA**-**

 Additional Documentation

 ALL-IN-1/US Management Documentation:
    QA-AAAAB-GZ

 ALL-IN-1/US AP&I Documentation Kit:
    QA-AAAAC-GZ

 ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server API Documentation Kit:
    QA-AAAAL-GZ

                                 20


 

 ALL-IN-1 General User Documentation Kit:
    QA-AAAAM-GZ

 ALL-IN-1 Super User Documentation Kit:
    QA-AABAA-GZ

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use plus Personal Use basis.

 Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
 layered product.

 In addition, ALL-IN-1 provides a Personal Licensing Reporting Tool.
 System Managers and Administrators can easily recognize when the au-
 thorized (purchased) personal license limit has been reached or ex-
 ceeded.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility Manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
 ing System documentation set.




                                 21


 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of services and options are available from Digital. For more
 information, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 © 1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

 [R] Apple and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Com-
    puter, Inc.

 [R] HP, DeskJet, and LaserJet are registered trademarks of Hewlett-
    Packard Corporation.

 [R] IBM and ProPrinter are registered trademarks of International
    Business Machines Corporation.

 [R] Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [R] OSF/1 is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [R] PinWriter is a registered trademark of NEC Corporation.

 [R] PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

 [R] Toshiba is a registered trademark of Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba.

 [TM]Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.






                                 22


 


 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, ALL-IN-1, Alpha AXP, CDA, CI, Com-
    pacTape, DATATRIEVE, DDIF, DEC, DEC Notes, DEC RALLY, DEC
    VTX, DECdx, DECdx/RSTS, DEClaser, DECmate, DECnet, DECserver,
    DECstation, DECterm, DECtrace, DECwindows, DECwrite, Digital,
    DTIF, DX, EDT, FMS, LA, LA50, LA75, LA324, LN03, LN03 PLUS,
    LQP02, MAILbus, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, PrintServer, RSX,
    TeamLinks, TK, TOPS-20, ULTRIX, VAX, VAX FMS, VAX TEAMDATA,
    VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXstation, VT100,
    VT220, VT300, VT320, VT330, VT340, VT420, WPS, and WPS-PLUS
    are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.





























                                 23

