
 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2
 SPD's 25.01.43

 Note: This Software Product Description describes OpenVMS Operating 
 System Software for the Alpha and VAX computer family. Except where 
 explicitly noted the features described in this SPD apply equally to
 Alpha and VAX systems. OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX operating system
 licenses and part numbers are architecture specific; please refer to
 the Ordering Information section of this SPD for further details.

 DESCRIPTION

 OpenVMS is a general-purpose multiuser operating system that runs in
 both production and development environments. OpenVMS Alpha supports
 Digital Equipment Corporation's Alpha series computers, while OpenVMS
 VAX supports VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, and VAXserver series comput-
 ers. OpenVMS software supports industry standards, facilitating ap-
 plication portability and interoperability. OpenVMS provides symmet-
 ric multiprocessing (SMP) support for multiprocessing Alpha and VAX
 systems.

 The OpenVMS operating system can be tuned to perform well in a wide
 variety of applications, including compute-intensive, I/O-intensive,
 client/server, real-time, and combinations of those and other envi-
 ronments. Actual performance depends on the type of computer, avail-
 able physical memory, and the number and type of disk and tape drives
 on the
 system.

 OpenVMS has well-integrated networking, distributed computing and 
 client/server, multiprocessing, and windowing capabilities. OpenVMS 
 contains extensive features that promote ease-of-use, improve the 
 productivity of programmers, and facilitate system management.


                               DIGITAL                      June 1995
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 OpenVMS is an open software environment that supports key standards
 such as OSF/Motif, POSIX, XPG4, and the OSF Distributed Computing En-
 vironment (DCE). The right to use POSIX for OpenVMS and the DCE Run-
 time Services for OpenVMS is bundled with the OpenVMS operating sys-
 tem base license. DECwindows Motif is available exclusively as a sep-
 arate layered product.

 OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 and OpenVMS VAX V6.2 are functional releases
 of the OpenVMS operating system for Digital's Alpha and VAX systems
 respectively. These releases include a number of new features, 
 enhancements and expanded hardware support. Refer to the OpenVMS 
 Version 6.2 New Features Manual for details.

 OpenVMS Alpha compilers and applications take advantage of 64 bits by
 using 64-bit data types. Consult the Software Product Descriptions of
 OpenVMS Alpha compilers for further details. Note that application 
 virtual address space is a 32-bit implementation for 
 compatibility and migration purposes.

 User Environment

 Users can access OpenVMS software by using the English-like DIGITAL
 Command Language (DCL), the command language for OpenVMS that is 
 supplied with the system. DCL commands take the form of a command name
 followed by parameters and qualifiers. DCL commands provide informa-
 tion about the system, initiate system utilities, and initiate user
 programs. OpenVMS prompts users to enter required DCL parameters, mak-
 ing it easy for novice users.

 Users can enter DCL commands at a terminal or include them in command
 procedures. Command procedures can be run interactively or submitted
 to a batch queue for deferred execution.

 Information on DCL and OpenVMS utilities is available through the on-
 line OpenVMS Help system. Online Help includes summary operational in-
 formation on all aspects of system operation.

 A number of tools and utilities are integrated into the OpenVMS op-
 erating system. They include:


                                  2
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Text Processing

 The Extensible Versatile Editor (EVE), one of several text editors 
 supplied by Digital, is the default editor for OpenVMS. EVE allows 
 users to insert, change, and delete text quickly. Written in the DEC
 Text Processing Utility language (DECTPU), EVE is a full-screen 
 editor that allows users to scroll through text on a terminal screen.
 EVE provides an EDT-style keypad, allowing EDT users to move to EVE 
 easily. EDT is also supported on OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 and 
 OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2.

 Mail Utility

 The Mail utility allows users to send messages to any other user on
 the system. Multinode operation is available if DECnet or DECnet/OSI
 is installed and
 licensed on each participating node on the configured network.

 Command-Level Programming

 Command-level programming allows users to create special files called
 command procedures that contain a series of DCL commands. When users
 execute a command procedure, the system consecutively processes the
 commands in the command procedure. Users can also use special DCL com-
 mands to assign symbolic names, evaluate numerical and logical expres-
 sions, accept parameters, communicate interactively with the user in-
 voking the command procedure, perform conditional (IF-THEN-ELSE) and
 branching (GOTO) logic, and handle error conditions.

 User Environment Tailoring

 Users can customize the computing environment with user login command
 procedures, shorthand commands, binding of commands to function keys,
 and command recall and editing.

 Terminal Fallback Facility (TFF)





                                  3
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 This facility allows Digital 7-bit terminals to input and output the
 DEC Multinational character set (MCS). Specific tables allow conver-
 sion for a number of different 7-bit National Replacement Character
 sets, such as French, German, Spanish, and Swedish, to MCS. TFF also
 allows character composition on terminals that do not have the com-
 pose key.

 National Character Set (NCS) Utility

his utility allows users to define non-ASCII string collating sequences
 and to define conversion functions. Conversion functions use conver-
 sion algorithms to change an input string; for example, to change low-
 ercase characters to uppercase. NCS also allows RMS indexed files to
 be collated using user-specified collating sequences.

 Program Development Environment

 OpenVMS includes a comprehensive set of tools for developing programs,
 including run-time libraries (RTLs), a linker, a librarian, and a sym-
 bolic debugger. The assembly-level VAX MACRO language is supplied with
 OpenVMS VAX. Tools available to the OpenVMS programmer include the 
 following:

 Language and Run-Time Library Support

 OpenVMS includes several run-time libraries (RTLs) that provide string
 manipulation, parallel processing support, I/O routines, I/O conver-
 sion, terminal-independent screen handling, date and time formatting
 routines, highly accurate mathematical functions, signaling and con-
 dition handling, and other general-purpose functions.

 On OpenVMS VAX, these routines can be called from programs written in
 such languages as VAX MACRO, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX BLISS-32 Imple-
 mentation Language, VAX C, DEC C, DEC C++, VAX COBOL, VAX DIBOL, VAX 
 FORTRAN, VAX Pascal, VAX PL/I, and VAX SCAN.





                                  4
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 On OpenVMS Alpha, these routines can be called from programs written
 in such languages as MACRO-64, DEC Ada, DEC BASIC, DEC C, DEC C++, DEC
 COBOL, DEC Fortran, DEC Pascal, and DEC PL/1.

Also included in OpenVMS Alpha are language-support libraries. While
each language is different, all provide support for sequential file
I/O and most support direct and indexed file I/O as well. Language RTLs
also provide support for I/O formatting, error handling, and in DEC
Fortran, the ability to read unformatted files containing data from
other vendors.

 Run-Time Libraries are provided to support Translated Images created
 from user mode images built on OpenVMS VAX Version 4.0 through Ver-
 sion 5.5-2. Depending on the method used to create the VAX image, 
 these Run-Time Libraries may be useful for images built on later 
 versions of OpenVMS VAX, which do not use features which were 
 developed since OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2.

 Translated Images Run-Time Libraries are used to support a few archi-
 tectural features (such as VAX D-float and H-float), which differ be-
 tween VAX and Alpha systems, and support programs converted to run on
 Alpha systems before native Alpha compilers were available for par-
 ticular programming languages.

 Many Digital languages (including those listed previously) adhere to
 the common calling standard, meaning that routines written in any of
 these languages can directly call routines written in any other lan-
 guage. Development of applications using multiple languages is sim-
 ple and straightforward.

 All user accessible routines in the Run-Time Libraries follow the 
 OpenVMS Alpha or OpenVMS VAX calling standard and condition-handling
 conventions, and most are contained within shareable images.

 At a lower level, programs can call system services directly for se-
 curity, event flag, asynchronous system trap, logical name, record and
 file I/O, process control, timer, time conversion, condition handling,
 lock management, and memory management services. Again, system ser-
 vices use the OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha calling standard and 
 condition-handling conventions.

                                  5
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 OpenVMS supports execution of user mode images created on earlier ver-
 sions of OpenVMS. Recompiling and relinking typically are not required.

 Macro-32 Compiler - Alpha

 The Macro-32 compiler for OpenVMS Alpha is supplied with OpenVMS Al-
 pha software for migration purposes.

 DECthreads

 OpenVMS includes a user-mode multithreading capability referred to as
 DECthreads. DECthreads provides an implementation of draft 4 of the
 proposed POSIX 1003.4a standard and is Digital's implementation of the
 Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) Threads as defined by the Open
 Software Foundation. DECthreads is a library of run-time routines that
 allows the user to create multiple threads of execution within a sin-
 gle address space. Multithreading capability allows computation ac-
 tivity to be overlapped with I/O activity. Synchronization elements,
 such as mutexes and condition variables, are provided to help ensure
 that shared resources are accessed correctly. DECthreads also provides
 multiple scheduling policies for scheduling and prioritizing threads.
 DECthreads is supported by the OpenVMS debugger, to aid in the debug-
 ging of multithreaded applications.

 Librarian Utility

 The Librarian utility permits storage of object modules, image files,
 macros, Help text, or any general record-oriented information in cen-
 tral, easily accessible files. Object module and image file libraries
 are searched by the linker when the linker finds a reference it can-
 not resolve in one of its input files. Alpha macro libraries are 
 searched by the Macro-32 compiler and Macro-64 assembler when either 
 finds a macro name that is not defined in the input file. VAX macro 
 libraries are searched by the assembler when the assembler finds a 
 macro that is not defined in the input file.

 Debugger




                                  6
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The OpenVMS Debugger allows users to trace program execution as well
 as display and modify register contents using the same symbols that
 are present in the source code.

 Alpha System-Code Debugger

The OpenVMS Alpha System-Code Debugger is a kernel code debugger. It
allows a system code developer to trace the execution of nonpageable
system code at any IPL (Interrupt Priority Level). Based on the OpenVMS
Alpha Debugger, the system-code debugger uses the same interface and
a majority of the same command set.

 System Dump Analyzer

 In the event of a system failure, OpenVMS will write the contents of
 memory to a pre-allocated dump file. This dump file can later be an-
 alyzed using the System Dump Analyzer (SDA). System dumps can either
 be full memory dumps, where all memory is written, or selective mem-
 ory dumps, where only memory in use at the time of the system fail-
 ure is written. Full memory dumps require a dump file big enough to
 hold all memory. Selective memory dumps will write as much of the mem-
 ory in use at the time of the system failure that will fit into the
 dump file, which can therefore be much smaller in size.

 OpenVMS for Alpha supports selective dumps on systems configured with
 any supported amount of memory. Full dumps are only supported on sys-
 tems configured with up to 4 GB of memory.

 RMS File Utilities

 RMS file utilities allow users to analyze the internal structure of
 an RMS file and to determine the most appropriate set of parameters
 for an RMS file. These utilities can also be used to create, load, and
 reclaim space in an RMS file. Refer to the Operating System Environ-
 ment section of this Software Product Description for more informa-
 tion on RMS.

File Differences Utility

This utility compares the contents of two files and lists those records
that do not match.

                                  7
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Translated Image Environment - Alpha

 OpenVMS Alpha provides an array of services to allow the operation of
 programs that have undergone binary translation from OpenVMS VAX im-
 ages. These programs can perform virtually all user-mode functions on
 OpenVMS Alpha, and can operate in combination with other programs (im-
 ages) that have been translated from OpenVMS VAX or have been built
 using native compilers on OpenVMS Alpha. Without requiring special 
 source code, the Translated Image Environment resolves differences 
 between the VAX and Alpha architectures, including floating-point 
 registers, condition codes, exception handling, ASTs, and so forth.

 The Translated Image Environment included with OpenVMS Alpha is suf-
 ficient to run such images that have been translated elsewhere. The
 DECmigrate for OpenVMS AXP layered product can be used to translate
 user mode OpenVMS VAX images. For additional information on the pre-
 cise characteristics of programs suitable for binary translation, re-
 fer to the DECmigrate for OpenVMS AXP Systems Software Product 
 Description (SPD 39.44.xx).

 System Management Environment

 OpenVMS provides a variety of features to aid the system manager in
 configuring and maintaining an optimal system. Features available for
 the system manager include the following:

 OpenVMS Management Station V1.0

 The new OpenVMS Management Station enables user account management on
 one or more VMScluster systems from a single Windows-based PC. It pro-
 vides the ability to perform management tasks across multiple systems,
 making it possible to easily modify many accounts in a single oper-
 ation. It provides a comprehensive interface to the user account man-
 agement features of AUTHORIZE, DISKQUOTA, and some DCL directory main-
 tenance commands, transparently enabling the steps of adding a UAF en-
 try, granting rights identifiers, creating a directory, disk quota,





                                  8
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 and mail profile. In addition, the Management Station also allows cre-
 ation of network proxy records and supports storing personal infor-
 mation such as phone number, location, and site-specific identifica-
 tion.

 The Management Station supports the account management operations of
 account creation, modification, and deletion as well as renaming ac-
 counts and displaying account attributes.

 The following are V1.0 restrictions with regard to managing OpenVMS
 systems:

 o  Managing OpenVMS Cluster members as individual nodes is not sup-
    ported. OpenVMS Cluster systems are treated as indivisible enti-
    ties; an operation cannot be performed on particular cluster mem-
    bers.

 o  OpenVMS Clusters with multiple user authorization files (UAFs) are
    not supported.

 o  The PCs currently support DECnet Phase IV only. However, due to the
    built-in backward compatability between DECnet/OSI and DECnet Phase
    IV this does not impose any restrictions on operations between a
    PC client and the server, as long as the node addresses are within
   the Phase IV address space (maximum 63 areas with maximum 1023 nodes
    per area).

The Management Station is a client/server application based on PATH-
WORKS ManageWORKS. The PC client requires Microsoft[R] Windows[TM] V3.1
(or Microsoft Windows for Workgroups V3.11) and PATHWORKS V5.0A or V5.1
for DOS and Windows client which includes ManageWORKS. The PATHWORKS
server is not required. The Management Station server component must
be installed on OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 or higher, or OpenVMS Alpha
Version 6.2 or higher. The Management Station software is included un-
 der the OpenVMS base license.

 InfoServer Tape Backup

 With Version 6.1 of the OpenVMS operating system, system managers can
 now back up and restore the system disk to tapes connected to an In-
 foServer system.

                                  9
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Batch and Print Queuing System

 OpenVMS provides an extensive batch and print capability that allows
 the creation of queues and the setup of spooled devices in order to
 process noninteractive workloads in parallel with timesharing or real-
 time jobs.

 The OpenVMS batch and print operations support two types of queues:
 generic queues and execution queues. A generic queue is an interme-
 diate queue that holds a job until an appropriate execution queue be-
 comes available to initiate the job. An execution queue is a queue 
 through which the job (either print or batch) is actually processed 
 or executed.

The system queues batch jobs for execution. The system manager can reg-
ulate the number of queues and the number of streams per queue (that
is, the number of batch jobs in the queue that can execute 
concurrently).

oth generic and execution batch queues can have different attributes,
uch as the maximum CPU time permitted, working set size, and prior-
ty. Facilities are provided for starting and stopping queues and for
tarting and stopping jobs in a queue. Because multiple execution queues
 can be associated with a generic queue, OpenVMS VAX enables load bal-
 ancing across available CPUs in a VMScluster system, increasing over-
 all system throughput.

 Print queues, both generic and execution, together with queue manage-
 ment facilities, provide versatile print capabilities, including sup-
 port of ANSI and PostScript[R] file printing.

 Accounting Utility

 For accounting purposes, OpenVMS keeps records of system resource us-
 age. These statistics include processor and memory utilization, I/O
 counts, print symbiont line counts, image activation counts, and pro-
 cess termination records. The OpenVMS Accounting utility allows var-
 ious reports to be generated using this data.

 Audit Analysis Utility


                                  10
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


For security auditing purposes, OpenVMS selectively records critical
security-relevant events in the system security audit log file. These
records contain the date and time the event occurred, the identity of
the associated user process, and information specific to each event
type. This information is intended to aid the system manager in main-
taining system security and to deter possible intruders. The OpenVMS
Audit Analysis utility allows various reports to be generated from this
data.

 Autoconfigure/AUTOGEN Utilities

OpenVMS provides utilities to automatically configure the available
devices into the system tables and to set system operational param-
eters based on the detected peripheral and memory configuration. There
is no need for a traditional "system generation" process when the hard-
ware configuration is expanded or otherwise modified.

The OpenVMS Alpha AUTOGEN command procedure automatically sets a num-
ber of system parameters by detecting devices installed in a config-
uration. A feedback option can be used to generate a report of rec-
ommended parameter settings based on previous usage patterns.

Backup Utility

he Backup utility provides full volume and incremental file backup
or file-structured, mounted volumes and volume sets. Individual files,
elected directory structures, or all files on a volume set can be 
acked up and restored. Files can be selected by various dates 
creation, modification, etc.). Files can be backed up to magnetic 
ape, magnetic disk, or WORM (Write Once Read Many) optical disk. The 
ackup utility can be used to restore a save set or list the contents 
f a save set.

 Backup Manager for OpenVMS provides a screen-oriented interface to the
 Backup utility which assists users in performing routine Backup op-
 erations.





                                  11
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Backup Manager is menu-driven and provides:

 o  Access to Backup's save, restore, and list operations without hav-
    ing to understand Backup command syntax

o  The ability to create, modify, recall and delete Backup Manager 
  "templates" describing Backup save operations

 Backup Manager will work on all supported OpenVMS configurations with
 a video terminal. It uses the Screen Management (SMG) RTL routines to
 provide a window- like user interface. The software does not assume
 any particular privilege on the part of its user beyond access to the
 files and devices being operated upon.

 Standalone Backup Utility - VAX

 Standalone BACKUP provides a mechanicsm for system managers to back
 up and restore system disks. Standalone BACKUP can also be used dur-
 ing the installation of the OpenVMS VAX operating system.

 Analyze Disk Structure Utility

 The Analyze Disk Structure utility compares the structure information
 on a disk volume with the contents of the disk, prints the structure
 information, and permits changes to that information. It also can be
used to repair errors that are detected in the file structure of disks.

 Monitor Utility

 The Monitor utility permits the system manager to monitor different
 classes of systemwide performance data, including process activity,
 I/O activity, memory management activity, vector processing activity
 (VAX), and two phase commit transaction activity at specified inter-
 vals. The data may be displayed as it is gathered or saved in a file
 for later use.

 License Management Facility (LMF)

 The License Management Facility (LMF) allows the system manager to en-
 able software licenses and to determine which software products are
 licensed on an OpenVMS system.

                                  12
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 System Management Utility (SYSMAN)

YSMAN allows the system manager to define a system management envi-
onment so that operations performed from the local OpenVMS system can
e executed on all other OpenVMS systems in the defined environment.
he environment may include OpenVMS Alpha and VAX systems configured
n a VMScluster, or multiple systems networked via DECnet or DECnet/OSI.

 Operations

penVMS enables varying levels of privilege to be assigned to differ-
nt operators. In addition, system-generated messages can be routed
o different terminals based on their interest to the console oper-
tors, tape librarians, security administrators, and system managers.
perators can use the OpenVMS Help Message utility to obtain online
rror messages descriptions.

ecurity

igital achieved a C2 security rating for OpenVMS VAX 6.0 and a B1 se-
urity rating for SEVMS VAX V6.0 in 1993 and is currently participat-
ng in a Ratings Maintenance Phase (RAMP) with the National Computer
ecurity Center (NCSC) to obtain C2 and B1 security ratings for Ver-
ion 6.1 of OpenVMS and SEVMS, respectively, on both Alpha and VAX plat-
orms. Digital expects to achieve C2 and B1 ratings for OpenVMS VAX
6.1 and SEVMS VAX V6.1 in mid 1995. Digital completed the NCSC Fu-
ure Change Review Board (FCRB) process, presenting its plans for RAMP-
ng to Version 6.1 of OpenVMS and SEVMS on the Alpha platform. The en-
ire RAMP process should be completed in the Fall of 1995. Digital plans
o continue to maintain C2 and B1 ratings on future versions of the
penVMS and SEVMS operating systems.

he ratings represent NCSC validation of the design of OpenVMS and SEVMS
perating systems against DoD 5200.28-STD "Department of Defense Trusted
omputer System Evaluation Criteria". To obtain an in-depth, 230-page
eport on the security of these systems, contact the NCSC at (410)859-
452 and ask for a copy of the "Final Evaluation Report Digital Equip-
ent Corporation OpenVMS VAX and SEVMS VAX Version 6.0," CSC-EPL-93
002, C-Evaluation No.14-94.
                                  13
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 For OpenVMS V6.2 security API's for Intrusion detection, Proxy access
 and Impersonation services have been added on both the Alpha and VAX
 platform to allow for better security in your Client/Server applica-
 tions.

penVMS provides a rich set of mechanisms to control user access to
ystem-controlled data structures and devices that store information.
penVMS employs a Reference Monitor concept that enforces the system
ecurity policy by mediating all access attempts between subjects, such
s user processes, and security-relevant system objects, such as files.
penVMS also provides a system security audit log file that option-
lly records the results of all object access attempts. The audit log
an also be used to capture information regarding a wide variety of
ther security-relevant events.

ser account information is maintained by the system manager in the
ystem user authorization file (SYSUAF). When creating user accounts
ith the Authorize utility, the system manager assigns the privileges
nd quotas associated with each user account. The system manager also
ssigns a user name, password, and unique user identification code (UIC)
o each account. Optionally, additional identifiers can be assigned
o each account, permitting users to belong to multiple overlapping
roups or projects. Account use may be limited by time of day, day of
eek, and type of access (such as local, remote, network, or batch).

o log in and gain access to the system, the user must supply a valid
ser name and password. The password is encoded and does not appear
n terminal displays. Users can change their password voluntarily, or
he system manager can selectively enforce how frequently passwords
hange, along with minimum password length, or optional use of ran-
omly generated passwords.

dditionally, OpenVMS provides a password dictionary filter that screens
assword choices for common words, and a user password history fil-
er that prevents users from reusing passwords that they have used 
ithin the last year. In addition to these built-in filters, a site 
an design and install its own filter to screen passwords against a 
ite-specific password policy.



                                  14
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The system password hash algorithm can also be replaced with a pri-
 vate algorithm for those sites that have contractual obligations to
 use specific public or private password encryption algorithms. This
 feature can be enabled on a per-user, per-password basis.

ogin security includes break-in detection, which allows terminals to
e disabled when password guessing is detected, and a secure login path,
hich can be used to thwart Trojan horse attacks against local ter-
inals. Additionally, a system password may be associated with dial-
n terminal lines to prevent the display of any operating system spe-
ific identification that might yield clues to possible attack method-
logies. When a user logs in, the system also displays a message stat-
ng when the last login for the account occurred and the number of 
ailed attempts to log in since the last successful login.

very security-relevant system object is labeled with the UIC of its
wner (normally the user who created the object) along with a simple
rotection mask. The owner UIC consists of two fields, the user field
nd a group field. System objects also have associated with them a pro-
ection mask that allows read, write, execute, and delete access to
e selectively granted to the object's owner, group, privileged sys-
em users, to all other users. In addition, system objects can be pro-
ected with access control lists to allow access to be selectively 
ranted or denied to a list of individual users, groups, or 
dentifiers. Access control lists can also be used to audit access 
ttempts to critical system objects.

 OpenVMS applies full protection to the following system objects:

 o  Capabilities (VAX only)

 o  Common Event Flag Clusters

 o  Devices

 o  Files

 o  Group Global Sections

 o  Logical Name Tables

 o  Batch/Print Queues

                                  15
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  Resource Domains

 o  Security Classes

 o  System Global Sections

 o  Volumes (ODS-2)

n addition to the protection mechanisms previously described, Open-
MS provides a security attribute defaulting mechanism, in the form
f security template profiles. These template profiles are referenced
henever a new object is created and provide a means of associating
efault security information with each system object class except files.
rotection information for files is inherited from the previous ver-
ion of an existing file, the parent directory, or the creating pro-
ess' default protection.

ata scavenge protection can be enabled selectively in the form of file
igh-water marking and erase on delete attributes. These attributes
nsure that file contents cannot be read after a file has been deleted.
he system manager can also enforce file erasure on a per-volume ba-
is. The disk erasure pattern can also be replaced with a private pat-
ern for those sites that have contractual obligations to use a spe-
ific pattern.

 Security auditing is provided to allow for the selective recording of
 security related events. This auditing information can be separately
 directed to security operator terminals (alarms) or to the system se-
 curity audit log file (audits). Each audit record contains the date
 and time of the event, the identity of the associated user process,
 and additional information specific to each event.

 OpenVMS provides security auditing for the following events:

 o  Login and logout

 o  Login failures and break-in attempts

 o  Object creation, access, deaccess, and deletion, selectable by use
    of privilege, type of access, and on individual objects (ACL)

 o  Authorization database changes

                                  16
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  Network logical link connections and terminations for DECnet-VAX,
    DECnet/OSI, DECwindows, IPC, and SYSMAN (VAX only)

 o  Use of identifiers as privileges

 o  Installed image additions, deletions, and replacements

 o  Volume mounts and dismounts

 o  Use of the Network Control Program utility (VAX only)

 o  Use or failed use of individual privileges

 o  Use of individual process control system services

 o  System parameter changes

 o  System time changes and recalibrations

 Note: No system can provide complete security and Digital cannot guar-
 antee system security. However, Digital continually strives to enhance
 the security capabilities of its products. Customers are strongly ad-
 vised to follow industry recognized security practices.

 Operating System Environment

 Processes and Scheduling

he basic unit of execution in OpenVMS is the process. A process con-
ists of individual address space and registers known as "context,"
nd code called an "executable image." The context identifies the pro-
ess and describes its current state. Executable images consist of sys-
em programs and user programs that have been compiled and linked.

he maximum number of concurrent processes is 8192 per OpenVMS Alpha
r OpenVMS VAX system.

rocesses receive processor time to execute their images based on the
riority of the process. Thirty-Two priorities are recognized on Open-
MS VAX and sixty-four priorities are recognized on OpenVMS Alpha: pri-
rities 0 to 15 are for time-sharing processes and applications that

                                  17
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


re not time critical (four is the typical default for timesharing pro-
esses), and priorities 16 to 32 on VAX and 16 to 63 on Alpha are for
eal-time processes.

ach time an event such as an I/O interrupt occurs, the system first
ervices the event and then passes control to the highest priority pro-
ess ready to execute. The system automatically adjusts the priori-
ies of processes whose base priority is in the range of 0 to 15 to
avor I/O-bound and interactive processes, but the system will not ad-
ust the priority of a process in the range of 16 to 31 for VAX or 16
o 63 for Alpha.

eal-time processes can be assigned higher priorities to ensure that
hey receive processor time whenever they are ready to execute. Real-
ime processes are scheduled preemptively; that is, if a real-time pro-
ess is ready to execute, it is given the processor immediately, un-
ess a real-time process with a higher priority is ready to execute.

penVMS uses paging and swapping mechanisms to provide sufficient vir-
ual memory for multiple concurrently executing processes. Also, pag-
ng and swapping is provided for processes whose memory requirements
xceed available physical memory. The maximum working set size is 512
B of memory for Alpha and VAX.

rogrammers can exercise control over memory management from within
n image. An image executing in a real-time process, for example, can
nhibit paging or swapping of critical code and data.

eripheral devices can be managed by the system or allocated by in-
ividual processes. At least one disk must be a system disk. Other disks
an be designated as data disks for the general use of all users log-
ing in to the system or for a specific group of users. The system con-
rols interactive terminals and one or more printers.

xtended Physical Addressing - VAX

ith OpenVMS VAX Version 6.0, physical address space was extended from
0 bits to 32 bits. The OpenVMS VAX operating system can provide 3.5
B of physical memory, and .5 GB of I/O and adapter space. This ca-
ability enables large applications and workloads to access the huge

                                  18
  




penVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


mounts of physical memory that they require. The following table lists
he VAX processors that support this extended physical addressing:

 ___________________________________________________________________
                  Accessible
                  Physical
 System___________Memory______I/O_and_Adapter_Space_________________

 VAX 6000         1.25 GB     .5 GB
 model 600

 VAX 7000         3.5 GB      .5 GB
 series

 VAX 10000        3.5 GB      .5 GB
 series_____________________________________________________________

 Vector Processing - VAX

 single data item, having one value, is known as a scalar value. A
roup of related scalar values, or elements, all of the same data type,
s known as a vector.

n extension to the VAX architecture defines an optional design for
ntegrated vector processing that has been adopted by several VAX sys-
ems. The VAX vector architecture includes sixteen 64-bit vector reg-
sters (V0 through V15), each containing 64 elements; vector control
egisters; vector function units; and a set of vector instructions.
AX vector instructions transfer data between the vector registers and
emory, perform integer and floating-point arithmetic, and execute pro-
essor control functions.

 more detailed description of the VAX vector architecture, vector reg-
sters, and vector instructions appears in the VAX MACRO and Instruc-
ion Set Reference Manual.

he OpenVMS VAX operating system provides fully shared, multiprogramming
upport for VAX vector processing systems. By default, OpenVMS VAX loads
ector support code when initializing vector-present systems, but does
ot load it when initializing vector-absent systems. A system manager

                                  19
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 can control this behavior by using the system parameter VECTOR_PROC,
 as described in the OpenVMS VAX documentation.

 The presence of vector support code in a system has little effect on
 processes running in a scalar-only system, or scalar processes run-
 ning in a vector-present system. If many processes must compete si-
 multaneously for vector processor resources in a system, the system
 manager can maintain good performance by adjusting system resources
 and process quotas as indicated in the OpenVMS VAX documentation.

 The OpenVMS VAX operating system makes the services of the vector pro-
 cessor available to system users by means of a software abstract known
 as a capability. A system manager can restrict the use of the vector
 processor to users holding a particular identifier by associating an
 access control list (ACL) entry with the CAPABILITY object VECTOR.

 The VAX Vector Instruction Emulation Facility (VVIEF) is a standard
 feature of the OpenVMS VAX operating system that allows vectorized ap-
 plications to be written and debugged in a VAX system in which vec-
 tor processors are not available. VVIEF emulates the VAX vector pro-
 cessing environment, including the nonprivileged VAX vector instruc-
 tions and the OpenVMS VAX vector system services, as described by the
 OpenVMS VAX documentation. Use of VVIEF is restricted to user mode 
 code.

 DECdtm Services

 The DECdtm services embedded in the OpenVMS operating system support
 fully distributed databases using a "two-phase commit" protocol. The
 DECdtm services provide the technology and features for distributed
 processing, ensuring both transaction and database integrity across
 multiple Digital resource managers. Updates to distributed databases
 occur as a single "all or nothing" unit of work, regardless of where
 the data physically resides. This ensures consistency of distributed
 data.

ECdtm services allow applications to define "global transactions" that
ay include calls to any of a number of Digital data management prod-
cts. Regardless of the mix of data management products used, the global



                                  20
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 transaction will either commit or abort. OpenVMS is unique in provid-
 ing transaction processing functionality as base operating system ser-
 vices.

 DECdtm features include:

  Embedded OpenVMS system services support the DECtp architecture,
  providing features and the technology for distributed transaction
  processing.

  Allows multiple disjoint resources to be updated atomically. These
  resources can be either physically disjointed (for example, on dif-
  ferent CPUs) or logically disjointed (for example, in different 
  databases on the same CPU).

  Encourages robust application development. Applications can be writ-
  ten to ensure that data is never in an inconsistent state, even in
  the event of system failures.

  Can be called using any Digital TP monitor or database product. This
  is useful for applications using several Digital database products.

 Interprocess Communication

 OpenVMS provides a number of facilities for applications that consist
 of multiple cooperating processes.

  Mailboxes are virtual devices that allow processes to communicate
  with queued messages.

  Shared memory sections on a single processor or a symmetrical mul-
  tiprocessing (SMP) system permit multiple processes to access shared
  address space concurrently.

  Common event flags provide simple synchronization.

  The lock manager provides a more comprehensive enqueue/dequeue fa-
  cility with multilevel locks, values, and ASTs (asynchronous sys-
  tem traps).

 Symmetric Multiprocessing

                                  21
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


penVMS provides symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) support for Alpha and
AX multiprocessor systems. SMP is a form of tightly coupled multi-
rocessing in which all processors perform operations simultaneously.
he processors can perform operations in all OpenVMS access modes (user,
upervisor, executive, and kernel).

penVMS SMP configurations consist of multiple central processing units
xecuting code from a single shared memory address space. Users and
rocesses share a single copy of OpenVMS Alpha or OpenVMS VAX. SMP also
rovides simultaneous shared access to common data in global sections
o all processors. OpenVMS SMP dynamically selects the CPU where a pro-
ess will run based on process priority.

MP support is an integral part of OpenVMS and is provided transpar-
ntly to the user. Because an SMP system is a single system entity,
t is configured into a network and VMScluster configurations as a sin-
le node.

etworking Facilities

penVMS provides device drivers for all Digital LAN adapters listed
n the LAN Options section of Appendix A of this SPD. Application pro-
rammers can use the QIO system service to communicate with other sys-
ems connected via the LAN using either Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 packet
ormat. Simultaneous use of Digital Ethernet and IEEE 802.3 protocols
re supported on any Digital LAN adapter.

ECnet/OSI offers task-to-task communications, file management, down-
ine system and task loading, network command terminals, and network
esource sharing capabilities as defined in the Digital Network Ar-
hitecture (DNA) Phase V protocols. DECnet/OSI provides the newest DEC-
et features such as Extended Addressing, and downline load perfor-
ance enhancements. DECnet/OSI integrates DECnet and OSI protocols and
ow provides a linkage to TCP/IP using RFC 1006 and RFC 1006+. DEC-
et and OSI applications can now be run over DECnet (NSP), OSI (CLNS),
nd/or TCP/IP transports.





                                  22
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 DECnet for OpenVMS Alpha and DECnet-VAX offer the networking capabil-
 ities as defined in the Digital Network Architecture (DNA) Phase IV.
 For more information, refer to the DECnet Software description in the
 ASSOCIATED PRODUCTS section of this SPD.

 Terminal Server Products

 Digital's terminal server products can be used for terminal server ac-
 cess to OpenVMS. When used in a VMScluster system environment, ter-
 minal servers automatically distribute users at login time across the
 available Alpha and VAX systems.

 OpenVMS can also establish a connection to other devices (such as 
 printers) attached to such terminal servers.

 Reliability

 The system handles hardware errors as transparently as possible while
 maintaining data integrity and providing sufficient information to di-
 agnose the cause of the error. The system limits the effects of an er-
 ror by first determining if the error is fatal. If the error occurs
 in system context, then the current OpenVMS system is shut down. If
 the error is not fatal, then recovery actions pertinent to the error
 are executed and the current operation is continued.

 In all cases, information relevant to the error is collected and put
 in the error log file for later analysis. Hardware errors include the
 following categories:

 o  Processor errors. These include processor soft errors, processor
    hard errors, processor machine checks, and adapter errors.

 o  Memory errors. These can be unrecoverable (hard) errors or recov-
    erable (soft) errors. The system examines memory at startup time
    and does not use any pages found to be bad. During system opera-
    tion, the system transparently corrects all single-bit memory er-
    rors for those systems with Error Correction Code (ECC) memory. On
    OpenVMS VAX, an unrecoverable error causes the memory page on which
    the error occurred to be added to the bad page list. If the page
    has not been modified, system operation continues with a new copy
    of the page.

                                  23
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


  Correctable memory errors. A primary cause of these correctable mem-
  ory errors is Alpha particle radiation. On some processors, when
  correctable memory errors occur, the memory controller corrects only
  the data returned to the CPU or I/O controller. The actual data in
  memory is left with the error intact. Subsequent read operations
  will cause correction cycles to occur and in most cases an inter-
  rupt to report the error. On many of these processors, OpenVMS mon-
  itors the occurrence of correctable memory errors and in almost all
  cases is able to remove the error condition by rewriting the data
  in memory. Rewriting the data causes the data to be corrected in
  the memory location. On OpenVMS VAX, if the cause of the error is
  not transient, and the error condition persists, the operating sys-
  tem will attempt to move the data from the existing page which con-
  tains the error to a new page. The original page is then retired
  from use.

 Other failures include:

 o  Operating system errors (system-detected inconsistencies or archi-
    tectural errors in system context)

 o  User errors

 o  I/O errors

he system logs all processor errors, all operating system errors de-
ected through internal consistency checks, all double-bit memory er-
ors (and a summary of corrected single-bit memory errors), and most
/O errors.

f the system is shut down because of an unrecoverable hardware or soft-
are error, a dump of physical memory is written. The dump includes
he contents of the processor registers. The OpenVMS System Dump An-
lyzer utility is provided for analyzing memory dumps.

 Power Failures - VAX





                                  24
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


f power fails, the system shuts down automatically. When power is re-
tored, the system restarts automatically and resumes processing at
he point of interruption if the system has a time-of-day clock and
 memory battery backup unit, if the contents of memory are still valid,
nd if the system is set to permit automatic rebooting.

he system restarts devices and communications lines. All I/O oper-
tions in progress, including magnetic tape I/O operations, are 
estarted. On request, programs can be notified of power restoration. 
n optional battery-operated hardware clock resets the date and time 
f day when the system restarts. If the system does not have a 
attery backup unit, or if the memory contents are not valid on power 
estoration, the system will reboot automatically if the system is 
et to permit automatic rebooting.

f, for any reason, after a power failure the system disk does not come
ack on line within a specific time after the CPU regains power, the
ystem shuts down.

nput/Output

he QIO system service provides a direct interface to the operating
ystem's I/O routines. These services are available from within most
penVMS programming languages and can be used to perform low-level I/O
perations efficiently with a minimal amount of system overhead for
ime-critical applications.

evice drivers execute I/O instructions to transfer data to and from
 device and to communicate directly with an I/O device. Each type of
/O device requires its own driver. Digital supplies drivers for all
evices supported by the OpenVMS operating system and provides QIO sys-
em service routines to access the special device-dependent features
vailable in many of these devices.

penVMS supports a variety of disk and tape peripheral devices, as well
s terminals, networks, and mailboxes (virtual devices for interpro-
ess communication), and more general I/O devices.




                                  25
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


n OpenVMS Alpha, users can write device drivers for I/O devices for
hich the operating system does not provide drivers. OpenVMS Alpha Ver-
ion 6.2 supports the Step 2 device driver interface, which allows de-
ice drivers to be written in DEC C and MACRO-32. OpenVMS Alpha doc-
mentation is available that describes how to write OpenVMS Alpha de-
ice drivers and how to convert existing OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Al-
ha Step 1 device drivers to OpenVMS Alpha Step 2 device drivers. The
EC C compiler for OpenVMS Alpha is an optional orderable layered prod-
ct.

n OpenVMS VAX, users can write their own device drivers in MACRO-32
or I/O devices for which the operating system does not provide drivers.
he OpenVMS VAX Device Support Manual and the OpenVMS VAX Device Sup-
ort Reference Manual in the OpenVMS Full Documentation Set describe
ow to write device drivers.

ecord Management Services (RMS)

ecord Management Services (RMS) is a set of I/O services that helps
pplication programs to process and manage files and records. Although
t is primarily intended to provide a comprehensive software inter-
ace to mass storage devices, RMS also supports device-independent ac-
ess to unit-record devices.

MS supports sequential, relative, and indexed file organizations in
ixed-length and variable-length record formats. RMS also supports byte
tream formats for sequential file organization.

MS record access modes provide access to records in four ways: se-
uentially, directly by key value, directly by relative record num-
er, and directly by record file address. RMS also supports block I/O
perations for various performance-critical applications that may re-
uire user-defined file organizations and record formats.

MS promotes safe and efficient file sharing by providing multiple file
ccess modes, automatic record locking where applicable, and optional
uffer sharing by multiple processes.


                                  26
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 RMS utilities aid file creation and record maintenance. These util-
 ities convert files from one organization and format to another, re-
 structure indexed files for storage and access efficiency, and reclaim
 data structures within indexed files. The utilities also generate ap-
 propriate reports.

or systems that have DECnet-VAX, DECnet for OpenVMS Alpha or DECnet/OSI
nstalled, RMS provides a subset of file and record management ser-
ices to remote network nodes. Network remote file operations are gen-
rally transparent to user programs.

CL commands such as EDIT, CREATE, COPY, TYPE, and PRINT allow manip-
lation of RMS files and records within RMS files at the DCL command
evel.

irtual I/O Cache

penVMS provides a standalone or clusterwide, file-oriented disk cache.
pplications automatically benefit from the advantages of the virtual
/O cache without any special coding. The virtual I/O cache file-caching
lgorithm is dynamically chosen based on the type of clusterwide ac-
ess currently in progress. Virtual I/O caching reduces current and
otential I/O bottlenecks within OpenVMS systems. It reduces the num-
er of I/Os to the disk subsystem, thereby reducing a systemwide bot-
leneck.

isk and Tape Volumes

isk volumes can be organized into volume sets. Volume sets can con-
ain a mix of disk device types and can be extended by adding volumes.
ithin a volume set, files of any organization type can span multi-
le volumes. Files can be allocated to the set as a whole (the default)
r to specific volumes within the set. Optionally, portions of indexed
iles can be allocated to specific areas of a single disk volume or
o specific volumes in a volume set.

isk quotas can be placed to control the amount of space individual
sers can allocate. Quota assignment is made by user identification
ode and can be controlled for each individual volume set in the sys-
em (or for each individual volume if the volume is not part of a set).

                                  27
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Disk structure information can be cached in memory to reduce the I/O
 overhead required for file management services. Although not required
 to do so, users can preallocate space and control automatic alloca-
 tion. For example, a file can be extended by a given number of blocks,
 contiguously or noncontiguously, for optimal file system performance
 in specific cases.

he system applies software validity checks and checksums to criti-
al disk structure information. If a disk is improperly dismounted be-
ause of user error or system failure, the system automatically re-
uilds the disk's structure information the next time the disk is mounted.
he system detects bad blocks dynamically and prevents their reuse once
he files to which the blocks were allocated are deleted. On DIGITAL
torage Architecture (DSA) disks, the disk controller dynamically de-
ects and replaces bad blocks automatically.

The system provides eight levels of named directories and subdirec-
ories whose contents are alphabetically ordered. Device and file spec-
fications follow Digital conventions. Logical names can be used to
bbreviate the specifications and to make application programs device
nd file name independent. A logical name can be assigned to an en-
ire specification, to a portion of a specification, or to another log-
cal name.

penVMS supports multivolume magnetic tape files with transparent vol-
me switching. Access positioning is done either by file name or by
elative file position.

onitoring Performance History Software (MPH)

onitoring performance History (MPH) software is distributed with the
penVMS distribution kit and is installed seperately. MPH is a tool
hich collects error logs, crash dump summaries and configuration data
rom the system on which it is installed. This data is transmitted back
o Digital and is used to set standard requirements for future releases
f OpenVMS, such as Mean Time Between Crash (MTBCr) and Mean Time Be-
ween System Interruption (MTBSi). The disk space requirement for MPH
nstallation is approximately 1200 blocks. MPH requires 300 blocks of



                                  28
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 disk space per node after installation. For more information please
 refer to the OpenVMS Version 6.2 Release Notes.


 ASSOCIATED PRODUCTS

penVMS Cluster Software

penVMS Cluster Software is available for Alpha and VAX systems as a
eparately licensed System Integrated Product. It provides a highly
ntegrated OpenVMS computing environment distributed over multiple sys-
ems. This environment is called a VMScluster system and may contain
p to 96 nodes.

MScluster systems communicate using any combination of the follow-
ng interconnects; CI, DSSI, FDDI, Ethernet, and SCSI. Additionally,
hen configured with suitable FDDI bridges, VMScluster configurations
ay utilize DS3/T3 and ATM networking infrastructures.

pplications running on one or more nodes in a VMScluster system ac-
ess shared resources in a coordinated manner. VMScluster software com-
onents synchronize access to shared resources, preventing multiple
rocesses on any node in the VMScluster from interfering with each other
hen updating data. This coordination ensures data integrity during
ultiple concurrent update transactions. Application programs can spec-
fy the level of VMScluster file sharing that is required; access is
hen coordinated by the OpenVMS Extended QIO Processor (XQP) and Record
anagement Services (RMS).

he OpenVMS queue manager controls VMScluster batch and print queues,
hich can be accessed by any VMScluster node. Batch jobs submitted to
MScluster queues are routed to any available CPU so that the batch
oad is shared.

he Lock Manager provides synchronized services between systems in a
luster, for use both by system components such as RMS and XQP, and
lso for direct use by applications.




                                  29
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


o or more Alpha and VAX computers connected to the same Computer In-
rconnect (CI), DIGITAL Storage Systems Interconnect (DSSI), or Small
mputer Systems Interconnect (SCSI) must be configured as members of
e same VMScluster system.

xed-architecture and mixed-version clusters containing both Alpha
stems and VAX systems are supported.

Scluster systems provide a uniform computing environment that is highly
alable, highly available, and secure. OpenVMS Cluster Software im-
ements a single security environment within a cluster configuration.
e security subsystem ensures that all cluster-visible objects main-
in consistent security profiles and that system security auditing
ntrols operate clusterwide.

fer to the OpenVMS Cluster Software SPD (29.78.xx) for more infor-
tion.

Camds

 DECamds Version 6.2 is available on the OpenVMS distribution kit. DE-
 Camds is a separately installable real-time high performance multi-
 system monitoring utility. It is supported on any system running Open-
 VMS Version 6.2. The right to use DECamds is included under the terms
 and conditions of the OpenVMS Cluster Software products (both Alpha
 and VAX).

 DECamds provides system resource availability monitoring, investiga-
 tion aid, and correction capability. This enables system managers to
 proactively and effectively manage multiple systems from a central-
 ized, mouse-driven DECwindows display.

 DECamds software comprises an OpenVMS device driver which runs on ev-
 ery node that is being monitored, and console software which runs on
 the centralized X-Window monitoring station.

 Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS




                                  30
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Digital provides the Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS Alpha and VAX prod-
 ucts for performing disk mirroring operations, using a RAID 1 stor-
 age strategy implementation. In this description, every use of Vol-
 ume Shadowing for OpenVMS means both the Volume Shadowing for Open-
 VMS Alpha product and the Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX product.

olume Shadowing for OpenVMS is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that
s separately licensed. Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS provides high data
vailability for disk devices by ensuring against data loss result-
ng from media deterioration or controller or device failure. This pre-
ents storage subsystem component failures from interrupting system
r application operations.

he system disk and Files-11 On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS2) data disks can
e volume shadowed.

he Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS product supports shadowing of all MSCP
ompliant DSA disks and all Digital SCSI disks. All disks in a sin-
le shadow set must have the same number of logical blocks and the same
hysical geometry. Shadow set members can be located on a single sys-
em or anywhere in a VMScluster system. Disks can be configured on any
SCP or Digital SCSI compliant controller.

olume Shadowing for OpenVMS provides fault tolerance resulting from
isk media errors or controller errors across the full range of Al-
ha and VAX processors and configurations. Shadow set member units can
e located on different controllers and OpenVMS Alpha and VAX MSCP 
ervers, providing configuration flexibility and a high degree of data 
vailability.

olume Shadowing for OpenVMS supports an unlimited number of single
ember shadow sets and up to 400 disks in multi-member (2 or 3 mem-
er) shadow sets on a standalone or VMScluster system.

hase I of Volume Shadowing (also known as Controller-Based Shadow-
ng) which was available in the past on OpenVMS VAX, is no longer sup-
orted.




                                  31
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The binary kit for Volume Shadowing ships with the OpenVMS Alpha and
 VAX distribution kits. To run the software, customers need to purchase
 a license and documentation. Refer to the Volume Shadowing for Open-
 VMS Software Product Description (SPD 47.04.xx) for more information.

ECnet/OSI and DECnet Software

ECnet software is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that is separately
icensed from the OpenVMS operating system. Refer to the DECnet for
penVMS VAX and Alpha SPD (48.48.xx) for further information on sup-
orted communications devices and software features.

ECnet/OSI is available as a layered product. The license for DECnet
or OpenVMS Alpha and DECnet/VAX will also grant the rights to use DEC-
et/OSI. Note that only one version of DECnet may be active on a sin-
le system at any one time. Refer to the DECnet/OSI for OpenVMS Al-
ha Software Product Description (SPD 50.45.xx) and the DECnet/OSI for
penVMS VAX Software Product Description (SPD 25.03.xx) for further
nformation on supported hardware configurations and software features.

EC TCP/IP Software

nternet networking is available through the DEC TCP/IP Services for
penVMS layered product. This product provides TCP/IP networking (use-
ul with DECwindows), Network File System (NFS), File Transfer Pro-
ocol (FTP), Remote Terminal Services (TELNET), and other features.
efer to the DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS Alpha Software Product
escription (SPD 46.46.xx) and DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS VAX Soft-
are Product Description (SPD 25.A4.xx) for further information.

MS Journaling for OpenVMS

igital provides the RMS Journaling for OpenVMS Alpha and VAX prod-
cts as separately licensed System Integrated Products (SIPs) that en-
ble a system manager, user, or application to maintain the data in-
egrity of RMS files in the event of a number of failure scenarios.
hese products protect RMS file data from becoming lost or inconsis-
ent.



                                  32
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


MS Journaling provides the following three types of journaling:

  After-image journaling. Provides the ability to "redo" modifica-
  tions that have been made to a file. This type of journaling al-
  lows users to recover files that are inadvertently deleted, lost,
  or corrupted. RMS Journaling recovers the file by applying the jour-
  naled modifications to a backup copy, thereby restoring its final
  state. No application modifications are necessary in order to use
  after-image journaling.

  Before-image journaling. Provides the ability to "undo" modifica-
  tions that have been made to a file. This type of journaling pro-
  vides the ability to return a file to a previous known state. This
  is useful in the event that a file is updated with erroneous or bad
  data. No application modifications are necessary in order to use
  before-image journaling.

  Recovery unit journaling. Provides the ability to maintain trans-
  action integrity. A transaction may be defined as a series of many
  file updates, on one or more files. In the event of any failure dur-
  ing the transaction, recovery unit journaling will roll back the
  partially completed transaction to its starting point. This allows
  complex transactions to be completed as an atomic event-partially
  completed transactions can be avoided. Recovery unit journaling re-
  quires application modification.

he binary kit for RMS Journaling ships with the OpenVMS Alpha and VAX
istribution kits. To run the software, customers need to purchase a
icense and documentation. Refer to the RMS Journaling for OpenVMS Soft-
are Product Description (SPD 47.03.xx) for more information.

ECram for OpenVMS

ECram for OpenVMS, a separately orderable layered product, is a disk
evice driver that lets a system manager create pseudo disks (RAMdisks)
hat reside in main memory for the purpose of improving I/O perfor-
ance. Frequently accessed data can be accessed much faster from a 
ECram device than from a physical disk device. These RAMdisks can be
ccessed through the file system just as physical disks are accessed,
equiring no change to application or system software.

                                  33
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Since main memory is allocated for the DECram device, an amount of ex-
 tra memory is generally required. The amount of memory dedicated is
 selectable. The system manager designates the amount of memory ded-
 icated to the DECram device(s) and the files that will be stored on
 it. The maximum size of a DECram device is 524,280 blocks. Refer to
 the DECram for OpenVMS Software Product Description (SPD 34.26.xx) for
 more information.

 DECwindows Motif[R] for OpenVMS

 Digital offers a separately orderable layered product called DECwin-
 dows Motif for OpenVMS, which provides support for both OSF/Motif[R],
 a standards-based graphical user interface, and the X user interface
 (XUI) in a single run-time and development environment. By default,
 DECwindows Motif displays the OSF/Motif user interface. Because both
 Motif and XUI are based on MIT's X Window System, applications writ-
 ten to either toolkit will run regardless of which environment the 
 user selects. Refer to the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Software 
 Product Description (SPD 42.19.xx) for more information.

 The OpenVMS software installation procedure contains an optional step
 to allow installation of the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS workstation
 and font support, which is required to run the DECwindows Motif for
 OpenVMS layered product. Refer to the OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 Up-
 grade and Installation Manual or OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 Upgrade and
 Installation Manual for details concerning the optional installation
 of the prerequisite DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS device support.

 Enhanced X Window System Display PostScript[R]

 The X Window System Display PostScript system provided with DECwin-
 dows Motif extends the native X graphical programming environment for
 DECwindows users displaying text or images on workstations that sup-
 port the XDPS extension. The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS layered 
 product must be installed and licensed in order to use Display 
 PostScript.




                                  34
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


he X Window System Display PostScript has two components:

  Display PostScript server extension, which is provided with the dis-
  play server in the OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX operating systems.
  A workstation is required to use this server.

  Adobe[R] client libraries, which are used by applications to per-
  form PostScript operations, such as rotating and scaling fonts, gen-
  erating curves, and displaying PostScript documents. The Adobe client
  libraries are available in the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS lay-
  ered product, as well as on third-party platforms, including IBM[R],
  Sun[R], and Silicon Graphics.

 Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the basic X11
indow System environment:

 o  All DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rotation an-
    gle.

 o  Display PostScript graphics are specified in a user-defined coor-
    dinate system independent of monitor density.

 o  Color or gray-scale rendition is automatically modified to take ad-
    vantage of the monitor type through either direct display, color
    dithering, or half-toning.

 o  Display PostScript display routines can be downloaded to the server
    and executed on command.

 o  Sophisticated graphics primitives, such as precisely controlled 
    Bezier curves, can be displayed.

 o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily.

 The Display PostScript system also allows users to view PostScript 
 files with such applications as DECwindows Mail and the CDA Viewer 
 without generating hard copy. (Terms and Conditions for Display 
 PostScript can be found in the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Software 
 Product Description (SPD 42.19.xx).


                                  35
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 CONFORMANCE TO STANDARDS

 OpenVMS is based on the following public, national, and international
 standards:

 POSIX Support

 OpenVMS supports a large number of industry standards, facilitating
 application portability and interoperability. This standards support
 includes POSIX (Portable Operating System Interface). POSIX defines
 a set of interface standards for various parts of an operating sys-
 tem. The POSIX standards have been generated by the Institute of Elec-
 trical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and are supported by organi-
 zations such as the International Organization for Standardization 
 (ISO).

 The OpenVMS environment with POSIX for OpenVMS and DEC C installed in-
 cludes standards support for the system application programming in-
 terface (POSIX 1003.1), shell and utilities (1003.2), and real-time
 programming (1003.1b, ex 1003.4 draft).

 The OpenVMS environment, in conjunction with POSIX for OpenVMS Ver-
 sion 2.0 and DEC C, has been certified by the National Institute of
 Standards and Technology (NIST) as conforming to the Federal Infor-
 mation Processing Standard (FIPS 151-2).

 XPG4 BASE Profile Branding

 The OpenVMS environment, with POSIX for OpenVMS Version 2.0 and DEC
 C installed, extends the support for POSIX standards to include the
 X/Open BASE specifications defined in the X/Open Portability Guide,
 Issue 4 (XPG4). The XPG4 BASE specifications extend the system appli-
 cation programming interface and shell and utilities offered in the
 IEEE POSIX standards. XPG4 also includes standards-based internation-
 alization support.

 The OpenVMS environment, with POSIX for OpenVMS Version 2.0 and DEC
 C installed was awarded the X/Open XPG4 BASE Profile Brand.



                                  36
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


latforms and components that successfully complete the branding pro-
ess and pass X/Open Verification Test Suite for XPG4 (VSX4) are awarded
he X/Open XPG4 BASE Profile Brand. Components must pass a series of
ore than 11500 tests in VSX4 to earn the X/Open BASE Profile Brand.
hese tests ensure that the OpenVMS environment with POSIX for Open-
MS Version 2.0 and DEC C installed supports the essential set of in-
erfaces necessary in an open system.

he inclusion of XPG4 BASE support in the OpenVMS environment gives
pplication developers a broader set of standards-based portability
eatures to incorporate into their applications. Most applications that
trictly conform to the POSIX and XPG4 specifications can be devel-
ped on an OpenVMS system with POSIX for OpenVMS and the DEC C com-
iler, and then ported without modification to any other platform that
lso supports the same POSIX standards and XPG4 specifications.

 Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) Support

 The Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) for the OpenVMS product
 family provides a set of the distributed computing features specified
 by the Open Software Foundation's (OSF) Distributed Computing Envi-
 ronment, as well as tools for application developers. With DCE, the
 OSF has established a standard set of services and interfaces that fa-
 cilitate the creation, use, and maintenance of client/server appli-
 cations. The DCE for OpenVMS serves as the basis for an open comput-
 ing environment where networks of multivendor systems appear as a sin-
 gle system to the user. Because DCE makes the underlying networks and
 operating systems transparent, application developers can easily build
 portable, interoperable client/server applications. Users can locate
 and share information safely and easily across the entire enterprise.
 The DCE for OpenVMS supplies system managers with a set of tools to
 consistently manage the entire distributed computing environment while
 assuring the integrity of the enterprise.

 The DCE for OpenVMS product family currently consists of the follow-
 ing products.





                                  37
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  DCE Runtime Services for OpenVMS, which is required for all sys-
    tems participating in the DCE cell. The DCE Runtime Services in-
    cludes DCE client functions as well as DCE administration tools.
    The DCE Runtime Services provides client/server applications the
    ability to interoperate over DECnet, TCP/IP, and UDP/IP network 
    protocols.

 o  DCE Application Developers' Kits for OpenVMS, which is required for
    developers of distributed applications but is optional for other
    users. The DCE Application Developers' Kit provides programmers 
    with an Interface Definition Language (IDL), an easy-to-use, ANSI 
    C-based language for writing remote procedure calls.

 o  DCE Cell Directory Server (CDS), one of which is required for each
    DCE cell. The DCE CDS is a central repository containing informa-
    tion about the location of resources in the DCE cell. It allows ac-
    cess to resources by a single name, regardless of physical loca-
    tion.

 o  Digital DCE Security Server, one of which is required for each DCE.
    The DCE Security Server protects resources from illegal access and
    provides secure communications within and between DCE cells.

 The right-to-use the DCE Runtime Services is bundled with the Open-
 VMS operating system base license. All other DCE products are avail-
 able as separate layered products. Refer to the Digital Distributed
 Computing Environment (DCE) for OpenVMS Software Product Description
 (SPD 43.05.xx) for more detailed information.

 Support for OSF/Motif and X Window System Standards

 DECwindows Motif provides support for OSF/Motif, a standards-based 
 graphical user interface, and the X Consortium's X Window System, 
 Version 11, Release 5 (X11R5) server.

 Standards Supported by OpenVMS




                                  38
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The OpenVMS operating system is based on the public, national, and in-
 ternational standards listed below. These standards are developed by
 the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), U.S. Federal Gov-
 ernment (responsible for FIPS), Institute of Electrical and Electron-
 ics Engineers (IEEE), and the International Organization for Standard-
 ization (ISO). The following information may be useful in determin-
 ing responsiveness to stated conformance requirements as enabled in
 particular commercial and/or government procurement solicitation doc-
 uments.

 o  ANSI X3.4-1986: American Standard Code for
    Information Interchange

 o  ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape
    (800 BPI, NRZI)

 o  ANSI X3.27-1987: File Structure and Labeling
    of Magnetic Tapes for Information Interchange

 o  ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape
    (1600 BPI, PE)

 o  ANSI X3.40-1983: Unrecorded Magnetic Tape

 o  ANSI X3.41-1974: Code Extension Techniques
    for Use with 7-bit ASCII

 o  ANSI X3.42-1975: Representation of Numeric
    Values in Character Strings

 o  ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape
    (6250 BPI, GCR)

 o  ANSI X3.131-1986 (SCSI I): Small Computer
    System Interface

 o  ANSI X3.131-1994 (SCSI II): Small Computer
    System Interface

 o  ANSI/IEEE 802.2-1985: Logical Link Control

 o  ANSI/IEEE 802.3-1985: Carrier Sense Multiple
    Access with Collision Detection

                                  39
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  FIPS 1-2: Code for Information Interchange, Its
    Representations, Subsets, and Extensions

    Note: 1-2 includes ANSI X3.4-1977(86)/FIPS 15; ANSI X3.32-1973/FIPS
    36; ANSI X3.41-1974/FIPS 35; and FIPS 7.

 o  FIPS 3-1/ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded
    Magnetic Tape Information Interchange (800 CPI, NRZI)

 o  FIPS 16-1/ANSI X3.15-1976: Bit Sequencing of the Code for Infor-
    mation Interchange in Serial-by-Bit Data Transmission

    Note: FED STD 1010 adopts FIPS 16-1.

 o  FIPS 22-1/ANSI X3.1-1976: Synchronous Signaling Rates Between Data
    Terminal and Data Communication Equipment

    Note: FED STD 1013 adopts FIPS 22-1.

 o  FIPS 25/ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Information In-
    terchange (1600 CPI, Phase Encoded)

 o  FIPS 37/ANSI X3.36-1975: Synchronous High-Speed Data Signaling 
    Rates Between Data Terminal Equipment and Data Communication 
    Equipment
    Note: FED STD 1001 adopts FIPS 37.

 o  FIPS 50/ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Information In-
    terchange, 6250 CPI (246 CPMM), Group Coded Recording

 o  FIPS 79/ANSI X3.27-1987: Magnetic Tape Labels and File Structure
    for Information Interchange

 o  FIPS 86/ANSI X3.64-1979: Additional Controls for Use with Ameri-
    can National Standard Code for Information Interchange

 o  FIPS 151-2: Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX 1003.1)

    Note: Other FIPS are not applicable.

 o  POSIX 1003.1, 1990: System application programming interface

 o  POSIX 1003.1b, Real Time Programming

                                  40
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  POSIX 1003.2, Shell and Utilities

    Note: Information regarding interchangeability of ANSI and FED 
    standards with FIPS is contained in "ADP Telecommunications 
    Standards Index," July 1988, published and maintained by the 
    General Services Administration.

 o  ISO 646: ISO 7-bit Coded Character Set for Information Exchange

 o  ISO 1001: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic Tapes for Infor-
    mation Interchange

 o  ISO 1863: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
    magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 32 rpmm (800
    rpi)

 o  ISO 1864: Information Processing - Unrecorded 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) 
    wide magnetic tape for information interchange - 35 ftpmm (800 
    ftpi) NRZI, 126 ftpmm (3 200) ftpi phase encoded and 356 ftmm 
    (9 042 ftpi), NRZI

 o  ISO 2022: Code Extension Techniques for Use with ISO 646

 o  ISO 3307: Representations of Time of the Day

 o  ISO 3788: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
    magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 63 rpmm (1
    600 rpt), phase encoded

 o  ISO 4873: 8-Bit Code for Information Interchange - Structure and
    Rules for Implementation

 o  ISO 5652: Recorded Magtape (6250)

 o  ISO 6429: Control Functions for Coded Character Sets

 o  ISO 9316: 1989 (SCSI-1) Small Computer System Interface

 o  ISO 9660: Information Processing - Volume and file structure of CD-
    ROM for information exchange

 o  ISO 10288: 1994 (SCSI-2) Small Computer System Interface

                                  41
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


NSTALLATION

penVMS Alpha is distributed as a binary kit on CD-ROM. Procedures for
etting up the system disk from media and for preparing the system for
ay-to-day operations are provided. The procedures use POLYCENTER Soft-
are Installation utility to configure and install the OpenVMS Alpha
ersion 6.2 operating system. These procedures are described in the
penVMS Alpha Version 6.2 Upgrade and Installation Manual and cover
etter.

penVMS VAX is distributed as binary kits on CD-ROM and tape. Proce-
ures for setting up the system disk from a kit and for preparing the
ystem for day-to-day operations are easy and straightforward. The pro-
edures are described in the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 Upgrade and In-
tallation Manual. Computer-specific information is contained in the
pgrade and installation supplements for each family of VAX comput-
rs.

OLYCENTER Software Installation

he POLYCENTER Software Installation utility is now included in Open-
MS. The POLYCENTER Software Installation utility is distributed with
he OpenVMS Version 6.2 distribution kit, and the right to use the POLY-
ENTER software is bundled with the OpenVMS operating system base li-
ense. The POLYCENTER Software Installation utility is a new technol-
gy that simplifies the installation and management of OpenVMS prod-
cts.

or system managers, the POLYCENTER Software Installation utility pro-
ides DIGITAL Command Language (DCL) and DECwindows Motif interfaces
hich can be used to install, configure, reconfigure, and deinstall
oftware products that have been prepared with the POLYCENTER Soft-
are Installation utility. In addition, the POLYCENTER software pro-
ides a database to track the installation, reconfiguration, and de-
nstallation of software. For products installed with other instal-
ation technologies, the POLYCENTER Software Installation utility pro-
ides a mechanism for adding information about them to the POLYCEN-
ER database. The POLYCENTER Software Installation utility also pro-


                                  42
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


ides the ability to manage dependencies between products during the
nstallation process.

or software providers, the POLYCENTER software simplifies the task
f packaging software by providing a simple, declarative language for
escribing material for the installation kit and defining how it is
nstalled. The POLYCENTER Software Installation utility handles the
unctions; the developer instructs the utility what to do. This sig-
ificantly reduces the complexity and time to develop installation pro-
edures. The language allows the developer to easily specify depen-
encies on other software, manage certain "objects" in the execution
nvironment (such as files and directories), and anticipate and re-
olve conflict before it occurs. The POLYCENTER software also signif-
cantly simplifies the packaging of multiple software products into
ne logical product.

MSINSTAL

penVMS VAX includes the VMSINSTAL facility to automate operating sys-
em software updates, as well as to handle the installation of optional
igital-supplied software products. OpenVMS Alpha includes the VMSIN-
TAL facility to handle the installation of optional Digital-supplied
oftware products that have not converted to PCSI.

est Package and Diagnostics

penVMS includes a User Environment Test Package (UETP), which ver-
fies that the OpenVMS operating system is properly installed and ready
or use on the customer's systems.

iagnostics can be run on individual devices during normal system op-
ration. Certain critical components can operate in degraded mode.

penVMS Alpha DISK SPACE REQUIREMENTS

perating System Disk Space Requirements





                                  43
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The disk space requirements for OpenVMS Alpha vary according to which
 options are installed:

 ___________________________________________________________________
                       Space
 File_Category_________Used_________Running_Total___________________

 Minimum OpenVMS        80 MB        80 MB
 Files

 Other OpenVMS          89 MB       169 MB
 Files

 Paging File (re-       38 MB       207 MB
 quired)

 Swap File (sug-         3 MB       210 MB
 gested)

 Dump File (op-         28 MB       238 MB
 tional)

 Decompressed Help      15 MB       253 MB
 Files (optional)

 Full DECwindows        65 MB       318 MB
 Motif V1.2-3
 (optional)

 Safeguard for          50 MB       368 MB
 upgrading__________________________________________________________

 The Minimum OpenVMS Files listed above are for a system configuration
 where all optional features have been declined during the initial in-
 stallation. For most applications, this is not a realistic OpenVMS en-
 vironment.

 The Paging, Swap, and Dump file requirements above are the minimum for
 a system with 32 MB of main memory. Additional memory in most cases
 will add to the space needed for these files, as will particular needs
 of your application. With careful system management it is possible to
 use Paging file space as a temporary dump file.

                                  44
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 For a VMScluster system disk, Paging, Swap, and Dump files cannot be
 shared between nodes so the files must either be duplicated on the 
 system disk or located on some other disk.

 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha Disk Block Requirements

 To support OpenVMS Alpha and the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha,
 a system disk of greater than 380 MB is recommended, however, a sub-
 set of DECwindows Motif can be installed. The disk space required for
 the installation of DECwindows Motif is 64 MB. The permancent amount
 of space used is 62 MB. An additional 33 MB is needed to install the
 DECwindow X11 Display Server and associated files. (These DECwindow
 X11 Display Server and associated files are included in the OpenVMS
 Alpha Version 6.2 media.) These disk space requirements are in addi-
 tion the disk space required for the OpenVMS Alpha V6.2 operating sys-
 tem as indicated in the OpenVMS Alpha DISK SPACE REQUIREMENTS table.

 Installation of the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-3 layered product 
 gives customers the option of installing any or all of the following 
 components:

 o  User environment and applications - 34 MB. This section provides
    support for running DECwindows Motif applications on VAX compute
    servers.

 o  Programming support - 7 MB. This section includes support for the
    DEC C, DEC C++, DEC Fortran, Pascal, and VAX C programming 
    languages. If a subset of languages is installed, the amount of 
    disk space required will be less.

 o  Example files - approximately 7 MB.

 o  Translated Image Support - approximately 17 MB.

ayered Product Disk Space Requirements

n addition to the disk space used directly by Digital or third-party
ayered products (as specified in documentation for those products),
here may be additional space used to store information from those prod-
cts in OpenVMS Help Libraries, Command Tables, Object Libraries and
lsewhere. The exact amount of additional disk space required cannot

                                  45
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 be totally predicted due to the possibility of recovering unused space
 already existing in those library files. Unusually large modules con-
 tributed by layered products can also affect the amount of space re-
 quired for upgrading to a new version of the OpenVMS Alpha operating
 system.


penVMS VAX DISK SPACE REQUIREMENTS

isk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 3)

o support the complete OpenVMS VAX operating system environment, a
ystem disk of greater than 100 MB is recommended. When a smaller disk
s used, additional tailoring is required prior to installing some 
penVMS VAX options. This does not include the dump file space. Refer 
o the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 Upgrade and Installation Manual for 
nformation on tailoring.

 Operating System Disk Space Requirements

 The disk space requirements for OpenVMS VAX vary according to which
 options are installed:



















                                  46
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
                       Space
 File_Category_________Used_________Running_Total___________________

 OpenVMS Files          83 MB        83 MB

 Paging File (after      6 MB        89 MB
 installation)

 Swap File (sug-         1.2 MB      90.2 MB
 gested)

 Dump File (op-          6.2 MB      96.4 MB
 tional)

 Decompressed Help       7  MB      103.4 MB
 Files (optional)

 Safeguard for          25 MB       128.4 MB
 upgrading

 Variable ad-            3.3 MB     131.7 MB
 ditional space
 (additional files,
 INDEXF.SYS,_etc.)__________________________________________________

 The above data was created from an installation on a VAXServer 2000
 with 6 MB of memory and an RD54 disk.

 Additional memory will add to the space required for Page, Swap, and
 Dump files and the variable additional space will increase with larger
 memory and disk.

Cwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX Disk Block Requirements

 support OpenVMS VAX and the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX lay-
ed product, a system disk of greater than 175 MB is recommended. The
sk space required for the installation of DECwindows Motif is 39 MB.
e permanent amount of space used is 34 MB. An additional 16 MB are
eded to install the DECwindows X11 Display Server and associated files.
hese DECwindows X11 Display Server and associated files are included
 the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 media.) These disk space requirements
e in addition to the 78 MB required for the other components of the

                                  47
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


penVMS VAX operating system environment. Refer to the OpenVMS VAX Ver-
ion 6.2 Upgrade and Installation Manual for details on tailoring small
ystem disks in order to support the DECwindows Motif environment.

nstallation of the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-3 layered product gives
ustomers the option of installing any or all of the following com-
onents:

  User environment and applications - 22 MB. This section provides
  support for running DECwindows Motif applications on VAX compute
  servers.

  Programming support - 6 MB. This section includes support for the
  DEC C, DEC C++, DEC Fortran, Pascal, and VAX C programming languages.
  If a subset of languages is installed, the amount of disk space re-
  quired will be less.

  Example files - approximately 6 MB.

ote that the individual sizes add up to more than the total because
ome components are shared by multiple portions of the environment.

MEMORY SPACE REQUIREMENTS

 OpenVMS Alpha Memory Space Requirements

 The minimum amount of memory required to install, boot, and log in to
 an OpenVMS Alpha system is 32 MB. To ensure satisfactory performance
 for particular applications or numbers of users, additional memory may
 be required. Refer to specific layered product documentation for mem-
 ory requirements.

 OpenVMS VAX Memory Space Requirements

 The minimum amount of memory supported for an OpenVMS VAX environment
 is dependent upon the specific system(s) being used and the overall
 type of configuration and application requirements. The minimum amount
 of memory supported for a standalone VAX system running OpenVMS VAX
 Version 6.2 is 4 MB. The minimum amount of memory supported for a VAX
 workstation running OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 is 12 MB.

                                  48
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The following tables give examples of the minimum amount of memory re-
 quired for a system user to install, boot, and log in to OpenVMS VAX
 Version 6.2. Specific requirements will depend upon the type of sys-
 tem being used and what other software is installed. To ensure sat-
 isfactory performance of applications, additional memory will be re-
 quired.

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Component_____________________Necessary_Memory_____________________

 OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2       4.0 MB

 DECnet-VAX                     .5 MB

 VAXcluster                    1.5 MB

 DECwindows Motif with         1.5 MB
 remote execution of ap-
 plications (X11 Display
 Server only)

 DECwindows Motif with         5.0 MB
 local execution of ap-
 plications (Includes
 X11 Display Server and
 DECwindows Motif layered
 product)___________________________________________________________

 The following example configurations are based on the previous table:

 ___________________________________________________________________
 System________________________Minimum_Supported_Memory_____________

 OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2,       6 MB
 DECwindows Motif with
 applications executing
 remotely, and DECnet
 (standalone system)



                                  49
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 System________________________Minimum_Supported_Memory_____________

 OpenVMS VAX V6.2, DECwin-     12 MB
 dows Motif with applica-
 tions executing locally,
 VAXcluster_and_DECnet______________________________________________

te: These are the minimum memory requirements. More memory will be
quired for satisfactory performance of the operating system and DECwin-
ws Motif applications. The performance and memory usage of DECwin-
ws Motif systems is particularly sensitive to system configuration
d window and application usage. Remote execution of an application
quires an additional system that runs the application while the dis-
ay of the application occurs on the local workstation.

lease refer to specific layered product Software Product Descriptions
or their memory requirements.

lease refer to the OpenVMS VAX documentation for more information con-
erning performance considerations.

ISTRIBUTION AND BACKUP MEDIA

 OpenVMS Alpha:

 OpenVMS Alpha is available on CD-ROM only. The OpenVMS Alpha Version
 6.2 Binary CD-ROM contains the OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 save sets and
 selected documentation in text and Postscript format. The OpenVMS Ver-
 sion 6.2 Online Documentation CD-ROM contains all OpenVMS Documenta-
 tion in Bookreader format. An InfoServer or local drive is needed for
 upgrades and system disk backups.

 OpenVMS VAX:

 OpenVMS VAX is available on CD-ROM, TK50, or Magnetic tape distribu-
 tion media.





                                  50
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


The OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 Binary CD-ROM contains the OpenVMS VAX Ver-
 sion 6.2 save sets, OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 standalone BACKUP, and se-
 lected OpenVMS documentation in text and PostScript format. The Open-
 VMS Version 6.2 Online Documentation CD-ROM contains all OpenVMS Doc-
 umentation in Bookreader format.

 The TK50 Streaming Tape contains the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 save sets
 and OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2 standalone BACKUP.

 The 9-track 1600 BPI Magnetic tape contains the OpenVMS VAX Version
 6.2 save sets.

The OpenVMS VAX operating system is also available as part of the Open-
 VMS VAX Consolidated Software Distribution (ConDIST) on CD-ROM.

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version
 of this product may be different from the requirements for the cur-
 rent version.

 DOCUMENTATION

 For OpenVMS Version 6.2, there will be one Documentation Set for both
 the Alpha and VAX platforms. Most manuals will be common to both plat-
 forms, although there are still some platform-specific manuals.

 OpenVMS offers documentation in a variety of formats:

 o  Online books (viewed using the DECwindows Motif Bookreader)

 For Version 6.2, online documentation will be distributed on a sep-
 arate CD-ROM that will ship with the OpenVMS Binary CD-ROMs. Customers
 will automatically receive the entire OpenVMS documentation offering
 in Bookreader format on the Documentation CD-ROM. Viewing online doc-
 umentation in Bookreader requires that DECwindows Motif be installed
 on the system and that a valid DECwindows Motif license be registered
 and loaded.

 o  Printed books (hardcopy)

                                  51
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


OpenVMS hardcopy documentation is made up of two offerings: the Open-
VMS Full Documentation Set and the OpenVMS Base Documentation Set. A
complete listing of all hardcopy manuals and their part numbers is con-
tained in the Overview of OpenVMS Documentation.

Full Documentation Set

The Full Documentation Set is for users who need extensive explana-
tory information on all major OpenVMS components, complete reference
information on system routines and utilities, detailed examples, guide-
lines for VMScluster systems, programming concepts, a master index,
and information on the Help Message utility. This set meets the needs
of system managers and of system and application programmers. It in-
cludes the Base Documentation Set.

Base Documentation Set

The Base Set includes the most commonly used OpenVMS manuals, address-
ing the needs of general users and system managers of small standalone
systems. Manuals, such as the Release Notes, New Features, and the DCL
Dictionary are included in the Base Set.

Each book in these sets is also separately orderable.

o  Printable files

n addition to the online and hardcopy manuals, several OpenVMS archived
ooks will be offered as PostScript files on the OpenVMS Documenta-
ion CD-ROM. For a complete listing of OpenVMS archived books refer
o the Overview of OpenVMS Documentation. These books can be ordered
eparately and on demand through the Software Supply Business (SSB)
roup.

rintable PostScript and text files will also be offered for the Re-
ease Notes, Installation Guides, and SPDs.

ou may print the electronic Software documentation accompanying the
oftware as reasonably necessary to exercise your license to use the
oftware.


                                  52
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


OURCE LISTINGS

penVMS Operating System Source Listings are available on CD-ROM. These
iscs contain all source listings files and the Alpha specific debug
ymbol tables that make up the OpenVMS operating system. Digital pro-
ides source listings for all key modules of the OpenVMS operating sys-
em that are appropriate for end users or application developers. The
ebug symbol files (DSF) on the OpenVMS Alpha Source Listings CD-ROM
ontain information used by the OpenVMS Alpha System-Code Debugger.
ertain company confidential source listings and debug symbol files,
owever, are excluded from the CD-ROM.

he orderable CD-ROM kit includes the license required to view these
iles on a standalone system or a VMScluster system. If users want to
ake these files available to another system (possibly at a remote site),
hey will need to purchase another kit.

 source license agreement must be signed for all kits. Contact your
ocal Digital representative for more information.

RDERING INFORMATION

 Alpha Software Licenses

 QL-MT1A*-6*     OpenVMS Alpha Operating System Base License

 QL-MT1A9-6*     OpenVMS Alpha Operating System Symmetric Multipro-
                 cessing (SMP) Base Extension License

 QL-MT2A*-**     OpenVMS Alpha Individual User License (No Longer
                 Available)

 QL-MT3A*-B*     OpenVMS Alpha Distributed Interactive User License
                 (No Longer Available)

 QL-MT3A*-3*     OpenVMS Concurrent Use License

 VAX Software Licenses



                                  53
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 QL-001A*-**     VAX VMS Operating System License for OpenVMS

 QL-005A*-6*     OpenVMS VAX Operating System Base License

 QL-005A9-6*     OpenVMS VAX Operating System Symmetric Multipro-
                 cessing (SMP) Base Extension License

 QL-XULA*-**     OpenVMS VAX Individual User License (No Longer
                 Available)

 QL-09SA*-AA     OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive User License
                 (No Longer Available)

 QL-MT3A*-3*     OpenVMS Concurrent Use License

 Alpha and VAX CD-ROM Media and Online Documentation

 QA-MT1AA-H8     OpenVMS Alpha software and online documentation
                 CD-ROM

 QA-XULAA-H8     OpenVMS VAX software and online documentation
                 CD-ROM

 QA-MT3AA-H8     OpenVMS VAX/Alpha software and online documenta-
                 tion CD-ROM

 VAX Media and Hardcopy Documentation

 QA-09SA*-H*     With Base Documentation Set

 QA-001A*-H*     With Full Documentation Set

 Digital Alpha Layered Product Media

 QA-03XAA-H8     Digital CD-ROM Software Library for OpenVMS Alpha

 Digital VAX Operating System and Layered Product Media

 QA-VWJ8A-A8     OpenVMS VAX Consolidated Software Distribution on
                 Compact Disc

 Hardcopy Documentation Sets

 QA-09SAA-GZ     OpenVMS Base Documentation Set

 QA-001AA-GZ     OpenVMS Full Documentation Set

                                  54
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Source Listings Kits

 QB-MT1AB-E8     OpenVMS Alpha Listings CD-ROM Kit & License

 QB-001AB-E8     OpenVMS VAX Listings CD-ROM Kit & License

 Software Product Services

 QT-MT1A*-**     OpenVMS Alpha Base System Software Support Service

 QT-MT2A*-**     OpenVMS Alpha Interactive User Software Support
                 Service

 QT-001A*-**     VAX VMS Operating System Software Support Service

 QT-005A*-**     OpenVMS VAX Operating System Base Software Support
                 Service

 QT-XULA*-**     OpenVMS VAX Interactive User Software Support
                 Service

 QT-09SA*-**     OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive User Software
                 Support Service

 A variety of integrated and  la carte hardware and software product
 services are available. For additional information, contact your lo-
 cal Digital office or Digital representative.

 CD-ROM
 Media and Online Documentation Update Service

 QT-MT1AA-E8     OpenVMS Alpha software and online documentation
                 CD-ROM

 QT-XULAA-E8     OpenVMS VAX software and online documentation
                 CD-ROM

 QT-MT3AA-E8     OpenVMS VAX/Alpha software and online documenta-
                 tion CD-ROM

 Digital Alpha Layered Product Media Update Service

 QT-03XAA-C8     Digital CD-ROM Software Library for OpenVMS Alpha

 Digital VAX Operating System and Layered Product Update Service

 QT-VWJ8A-C8     OpenVMS VAX Consolidated Software Distribution on
                 CD-ROM

                                  55
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Hardcopy Documentation Only Update Service

 QT-MT1AB-KZ     OpenVMS Alpha Base Documentation Set

 QT-MT1AH-KZ     OpenVMS Alpha Full Documentation Set

 OpenVMS VAX Media and Hardcopy Documentation Update Service

 QT-09SA*-E*     With Base Documentation Set

 QT-001A*-E*     With Full Documentation Set

 OpenVMS Source Listings Service

 QT-MT1AB-Q8     OpenVMS Alpha Source Listings Service

 QT-001AB-Q8     OpenVMS VAX Source Listings Service

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate Digital price
    book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The OpenVMS operating system software is furnished under the licens-
 ing provisions of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and
 Conditions.

 The OpenVMS Alpha operating system license includes the license for
 DECprint Supervisor for OpenVMS, Base. The DECprint Supervisor (DCPS)
 for OpenVMS has separate documentation, media kit, and service prod-
 ucts. Refer to the DECprint Supervisor for OpenVMS Software Product
 Description (SPD 44.15.xx) for more information.

The right-to-use POSIX for OpenVMS is included with the OpenVMS base
operating system license. Refer to the POSIX for OpenVMS Software Prod-
uct Description (SPD 38.82.xx) for more information.

 The right-to-use the DCE Runtime Services is included with the Open-
 VMS base operating system license. Refer to the Digital Distributed
 Computing Environment (DCE) SPD 43.05.xx for more detailed informa-
 tion on the DCE for OpenVMS product family.

                                  56
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The System Integrated Products DECnet for OpenVMS Alpha and DECnet-VAX
 are separately licensed products. Refer to the DECnet for OpenVMS VAX
 and Alpha Software Product Description (SPD 48.48.xx) for more infor-
 mation.

 The System Integrated Products (SIPs), OpenVMS Cluster Software 
 (29.78.xx), Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS (SPD 47.04.xx), and RMS 
 Journaling for OpenVMS (SPD 47.03.xx) are separately licensed 
 products. Refer to the appropriate Software Product Description for 
 more information.

 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS is a separately licensed layered prod-
 uct. Refer to the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Software Product De-
 scription (SPD 42.19.xx) for more information.

 DECram for OpenVMS is a separately licensed layered product. Refer to
 the DECram for OpenVMS Software Product Description (SPD 34.26.xx) for
 more information.

DECmigrate for OpenVMS AXP Systems is a separately licensed layered
product. Refer to the DECmigrate for OpenVMS AXP Systems Software Prod-
uct Description (SPD 39.44.xx) for more information.

 Software License Information - VAX

 The OpenVMS VAX operating system uses one of two different categories
 of licenses depending on the hardware and software configurations used
 and currently supported. This information is also provided in the ap-
 plicable country's Price List.

 These are the two categories of operating system licenses for Open-
 VMS VAX:

 1. VAX VMS Licensing
 2. OpenVMS VAX Licensing

 Digital provides the proper license type with the purchase of the sys-
 tem. Not all license types are available for every system model.

 VAX VMS License Information


                                  57
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


he VAX VMS licenses include the rights for the DEC Rdb Run-Time Op-
ion for OpenVMS VAX. This allows the running of an application de-
eloped using DEC Rdb for OpenVMS VAX software. However, DEC Rdb for
penVMS VAX has separate media and documentation. In addition, should
 user want to perform Rdb development, a separate license must be pur-
hased. Refer to SPD 25.59.xx for further information.

ffective February 6, 1995, the VAX VMS (UPI001) licenses no longer
nclude the rights for the Digital RDB Run-Time option for OpenVMS VAX,
nd do not permit use of RDB Runtime on prior versions of OpenVMS VAX.

ach of the following license are for a specified hardware system, which
s either the system the license was originally shipped with or the
ystem on which the license was first used:

 o  Operating System Base License (QL-001**-**)

 o  Operating System User License for OpenVMS VAX (QL-001**-**)

 o  Traditional License for OpenVMS VAX (QL-001**-**)

 There are four types of VAX VMS licenses:

 1. Traditional License (QL-001A*-**)

 This type of license provides unlimited use to the users on a defined
 system. VAX VMS traditional licenses are sized to capacity according
 to system type.

 2. Multi-User License (QL-001A*-**)

 This type of license provides use according to a specified number of
 concurrent users. This is an activity-based license. The Multi-user
 License provides the customer with the right to use the operating sys-
 tem up to the limit of users specified in the license. An operating
 system "user" is a person who is logged in to the system and/or is us-
 ing the system interactively. This license is only available on lim-
 ited system models, primarily MicroVAX and VAX 4000 systems.



                                  58
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Interactive use of VAX systems licensed with the Multi-user License
 may be increased by the addition of OpenVMS User Licenses* (for one
 or more users). Refer to the section on Ordering Information for fur-
 ther information.

 3. VAX VMS Workstation License (QL-001A*-**)

 This type of license provides use for a single user on a VAX Worksta-
 tion. This license type allows one direct login for the single user
 and then one additional login for system management purposes only.

 Additional interactive use of VAX Workstations licensed with the VAX
 VMS Workstation License requires the addition of an OpenVMS User Li-
 cense* (for one or more users). Refer to the section on Ordering In-
 formation for further information.

 4. File and Application Server License (QL-001A*-**)

 This type of license provides for the noninteractive use of OpenVMS.

 OpenVMS based VAXservers are sold with a File and Application Server
 License. The intent of an OpenVMS based VAXserver is to provide file,
 print, application, and compute "services" to "clients" who have re-
 motely submitted their requests (for example via network/remote sub-
 mit/batch jobs, and so forth). This license type also allows one di-
 rect login for system management purposes only.

Additional interactive use of OpenVMS VAXservers licensed with the File
and Application Server License requires the addition of an OpenVMS User
License* (for one or more users). Refer to the section on Ordering In-
formation for further information.

 The Operating System Base License provides the right to use only the
 OpenVMS Alpha features of the current version license.

 Not all VAX VMS license types are available for all versions of VMS,
 OpenVMS or all VAX models.

 *  The OpenVMS VAX Individual Use licenses are not supported by the
    VMS or OpenVMS VAX operating system releases prior to Version 5.5.

 OpenVMS VAX License Information

                                  59
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 There are four types of OpenVMS VAX licenses:

 1. OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License (QL-005A*-**)

 LMF Product Name: BASE-VMS-250136

 OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License grants the right to unrestricted, non-
 interactive use of the OpenVMS VAX operating system for the execution
 of remotely submitted requests for batch, print, application, and com-
 puting services, on a designated, single processor. This license au-
 thorizes one direct login for system management purposes only.

 The OpenVMS VAX Base License does not include the license right for
 the DEC Rdb Run-Time Option for OpenVMS VAX. The DEC Rdb for OpenVMS
 VAX Run-Time License is available separately.

 The Operating System Base License is a prerequisite for all Interac-
 tive User Licenses and all SMP Base Extension Licenses.

Interactive use of systems licensed with an OpenVMS VAX O/S Base Li-
cense requires the addition of an OpenVMS User License (for one or more
users). Refer to the section on Ordering Information for further in-
formation.

The Operating System Base License provides the right to use only the
OpenVMS Alpha features of the current version license.

The OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License also includes the license for DECprint
Supervisor for OpenVMS VAX. The DECprint Supervisor for OpenVMS VAX
has separate documentation, media kits, and service products. Refer
to SPD 44.15.xx for further details.

 2. Symmetric Multiprocessing (SMP) Base Extension
    License (QL-005A9-6*)

 LMF Product Name: BASE-VMS-250136

 SMP Base Extensions extend the O/S Base License to enable symmetric
 multiprocessing capability on a select number of OpenVMS VAX systems
 supporting SMP. SMP Base Extensions are permanently tied to the O/S

                                  60
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Base License and may not be separated from the
 O/S Base License if an SMP board is removed from the system.

 SMP Extensions grant the right to use the same version of the oper-
 ating system software as permitted for the corresponding O/S Base Li-
 cense at the time when the SMP Extension is granted.

 3. OpenVMS VAX Individual User License
    (QL-XULA*-**)
    (No Longer Offered)

 LMF Product Name: VMS-USER

 The OpenVMS VAX Individual User License provides the right to inter-
 actively use the operating system by the specified or unlimited num-
 ber of concurrent users on a designated, single processor. A user is
 an individual who is logged in to a processor and/or is interactively
 using the operating system software by means other than a login. An
 OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License or one of the four types of VAX VMS Li-
 censes (QL-001A*-**) is a prerequisite for the OpenVMS User License.

 The Operating System Base License provides the right to use only the
 OpenVMS Alpha features of the current version license.

 The OpenVMS VAX O/S Base, the SMP Base Extension, and Interactive User
 licenses are not supported by the VMS or OpenVMS VAX operating sys-
 tem releases prior to OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5.

 4. OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive User License
    (QL-09SA*-**)
    (No Longer Offered)

 LMF Product Name: ADL-USER

 This license grants the right to interactive use of the OpenVMS VAX
 operating system, provided the appropriate Operating System Base Li-
 cense or one of the four types of VAX VMS Licenses has been previously
 installed on a VAX system. The Distributed Interactive User licenses
 are concurrent use licenses and are available in any quantity desired


                                  61
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


xcept unlimited. Distributed Interactive User licenses are mobile (re-
esignatable) and may be installed and used on a single OpenVMS VAX
rocessor, or shared in a single OpenVMS VAXcluster.

 Distributed Interactive user is defined as an individual who is logged
n to OpenVMS VAX processor or OpenVMS VAXcluster and/or is interac-
ively using the operating system software by means other than a lo-
in.

 5. OpenVMS Concurrent Use License (For both VAX and Alpha)
    (QL-MT3A*-3*)

 LMF Product Name: OPENVMS-ALPHA-USER-ADL

 This license grants the right to interactive use of the OpenVMS op-
 erating system, provided the appropriate OpenVMS Operating System Base
 License in installed on an OpenVMS VAX processor, and/or on an Open-
 VMS Alpha processor, or on OpenVMS VAX processors if one of the four
 types of VAX VMS Licenses has been previously installed on a VAX sys-
 tem. The OpenVMS Concurrent Use licenses are available in any quan-
 tity desired except unlimited. OpenVMS Concurrent Use licenses are mo-
 bile (redesignatable) and may be installed and used on a single Open-
 VMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha processor, or shared in a single OpenVMS VAX-
 cluster, a single OpenVMS Alpha Cluster, or shared in a mixed Open-
 VMS VAX/Alpha Cluster.

 A user that enables a Concurrent Use license is defined as an indi-
 vidual who is logged into an OpenVMS VAX processor, or an OpenVMS Al-
 pha processor, or an OpenVMS VAXcluster, or an OpenVMS Alpha Cluster,
 or a mixed OpenVMS VAX/Alpha Cluster and/or is interactively using the
 OpenVMS operating system software by means other than a login.

 When an OpenVMS VAX SMP System upgrade is performed, the SMP Exten-
 sion to the OpenVMS AXP Operating System License permits the use of
 all existing Distributed Interactive User Licenses on the upgraded 
 system.

 The Operating System Base License provides the right to use only the
 OpenVMS Alpha features of the current version license.



                                  62
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 The OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive Use licenses are not supported
 by the VMS or OpenVMS VAX operating system releases prior to OpenVMS
 VAX Version 6.0.

 OpenVMS Alpha License Information

 There are four types of OpenVMS licenses available on Alpha proces-
 sors.

. Operating System Base License (QL-MT1A*-6*)

MF Product Name: OpenVMS-ALPHA

his license grants the right to noninteractive use of the remote batch,
rint, application, and computing services of the OpenVMS Alpha op-
rating system on a single processor. This license authorizes one di-
ect login for system management purposes only.

he Operating System Base License is a prerequisite for OpenVMS User
icenses and SMP Base Extension Licenses.

he Operating System Base License provides the right to use only the
penVMS Alpha features of the current version license.

. Symmetric Multiprocessing (SMP) Base Extension License (QL-MT1A9-
   6*)

MF Product Name: OpenVMS-ALPHA

MP Base Extensions extend the Operating System Base License to en-
ble symmetric multiprocessing capability on those OpenVMS Alpha sys-
ems supporting SMP. SMP Base Extensions are permanently tied to the
perating System Base License and may not be separated from the Op-
rating System Base License if an SMP board is removed from the sys-
em.

MP Extensions grant the right to use the same version of the oper-
ting system software as permitted for the corresponding Operating Sys-
em Base License at the time when the SMP Extension is granted.

3. Individual User License (QL-MT2A*-**)
       (No Longer Offered)

 LMF Product Name: OpenVMS-ALPHA-USER

                                  63
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 This license grants the right to interactive use of the OpenVMS Al-
 pha operating system, provided the appropriate Operating System Base
 License has been previously installed on the OpenVMS Alpha system. The
 Individual User Licenses are available in any quantity desired or as
 an unlimited user license.

 Individual User Licenses are redesignatable and may be installed and
 used on a single OpenVMS Alpha processor only. They may not be shared
 in a single OpenVMS Alpha VMScluster environment. An Individual user
 is defined as an user who is logged in an OpenVMS Alpha processor or
 is interactively using the operating system software by means other
 than a login.

 This license grants the right to use the same version of the operat-
 ing system software as permitted for the corresponding Operating Sys-
 tem Base License at the time when the Interactive User License is in-
 stalled.

 4. OpenVMS Alpha Distributed Interactive User License (QL-MT3A*-**)
       (No Longer Offered)

 LMF Product Name: OpenVMS-ALPHA-ADL

 This license grants the right to interactive use of the OpenVMS Al-
 pha operating system, provided the appropriate Operating System Base
 License has been previously installed on an Alpha system. The ADL In-
 teractive User Licenses, are concurrent use licenses and are avail-
 able in any quantity desired except unlimited. ADL Interactive User
 Licenses are redesignatable and may be installed and used on a sin-
 gle OpenVMS Alpha processor, or shared in a single OpenVMS Alpha 
 VMScluster environment.

 Distributed Interactive user is defined as an individual who is logged
n an OpenVMS Alpha processor or OpenVMS Alpha VMScluster or is in-
eractively using the operating system software by means other than
 login.

his license grants the right to use the same version of the operat-
ng system software as permitted for the corresponding Operating Sys-
em Base License at the time when the ADL Interactive User License is
nstalled.

                                  64
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 5. OpenVMS Concurrent Use License (For both VAX and Alpha) (QL-MT3A*-
    3*)

 LMF Product Name: OPENVMS-ALPHA-USER-ADL

 This license grants the right to interactive use of the OpenVMS op-
 erating system, provided the appropriate OpenVMS Operating System Base
 License in installed on an OpenVMS VAX processor, and/or on an Open-
 VMS Alpha processor, or on OpenVMS VAX processors if one of the four
 types of VAX VMS Licenses has been previously installed on a VAX sys-
 tem. The OpenVMS Concurrent Use licenses are available in any quan-
 tity desired except unlimited. OpenVMS Concurrent Use licenses are mo-
 bile (redesignatable) and may be installed and used on a single Open-
 VMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha processor, or shared in a single OpenVMS VAX-
 cluster, a single OpenVMS Alpha Cluster, or shared in a mixed Open-
 VMS VAX/Alpha Cluster.

 A user that enables a Concurrent Use license is defined as an indi-
 vidual who is logged into an OpenVMS VAX processor, or an OpenVMS Al-
 pha processor, or an OpenVMS VAXcluster, or an OpenVMS Alpha Cluster,
 or a mixed OpenVMS VAX/Alpha Cluster and/or is interactively using the
 OpenVMS operating system software by means other than a login.

 When an Alpha SMP System upgrade is performed, the SMP Base Extension
 to the OpenVMS Alpha Operating System License permits the use of all
 existing ADL Interactive User Licenses on the upgraded system.

 License Management Facility Support

 The OpenVMS operating system supports Digital's License Management Fa-
 cility (LMF).

 If an OpenVMS license is not registered and activated using the Li-
 cense Management Facility, then only a single login is permitted for
 system management purposes through the system console (OPA0:).

 Several of the VAX VMS and OpenVMS VAX license types are based on the
 number of concurrent users, called an activity license. Every prod-
 uct has the option to define an activity as related to the License 
 Management Facility. OpenVMS Interactive User and ADL Interactive User

                                  65
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Licenses define the number of concurrent users that are activity li-
 censes as defined by the LMF. OpenVMS defines activities, sometimes
 referred to as an OpenVMS "user", as follows:

 o  Each remote terminal connection is considered an activity. This is
    true even if users set host to their local nodes (SET HOST 0).

 o  Each connection from a terminal server is considered an activity.

 o  A multiple-window session on a workstation is considered one ac-
    tivity, regardless of the number of windows.

 o  A batch job is not considered an activity.

 o  A remote network connection that is a connection other than a re-
    mote terminal connection, is not considered an activity.

or more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
act your Digital account representative.

OFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
ormation, contact your local Digital account representative.

OFTWARE WARRANTY

arranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
hase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
ddendum of this SPD and the applicable Digital Standard Terms and Con-
itions.

YSTEMS SUPPORTED BY OpenVMS Alpha and VAX Version 6.2

lpha Systems Supported

his section of the SPD lists the Alpha systems that are supported by
penVMS Alpha Version 6.2. Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog
nd the Network and Communications Buyers Guide for details concern-
ng Alpha hardware configurations and options.

                                  66
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 Maximum Memory Support

 OpenVMS supports the following memory for the systems listed:

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Server_______________Memory________________________________________

 AlphaServer 8200      14 GB

 AlphaServer 8400      14 GB

 AlphaServer 2100       2 GB

 AlphaServer 2000     640 MB

 AlphaServer 1000     512 MB

 AlphaServer 400      192 MB

 AlphaStation 400     192 MB

 AlphaStation 250     192 MB

 AlphaStation 200     192 MB

 DEC 7000 Model        14 GB
 700

 DEC 4000 Model         2 GB
 700

 DEC 3000 Model       256 MB
 300

 DEC 3000 Model       512 MB
 700

 DEC 3000 Model         1 GB
 900

 DEC 2000 Model       256 MB
 300________________________________________________________________

 On all other AlphaServer and AlphaStation systems, OpenVMS will sup-
 port the maximum physical memory configured.

 EISA Bus Based Systems

 o  DEC 2000 Models 300/500

                                  67
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 TurboChannel Bus Based Systems

 o  DEC 3000 Models 300/300L/300LX

 o  DEC 3000 Models 400/400S

 o  DEC 3000 Models 500/500S/500X

 o  DEC 3000 Models 600/600S

 o  DEC 3000 Models 700/700LX

 o  DEC 3000 Models 800/800S

 o  DEC 3000 Models 900/900LX

 DSSI Bus Based Systems

 o  DEC 4000 Model 600

 o  DEC 4000 Model 700

 XMI Bus Based Systems

 o  AlphaServer 8400 5/300

 o  DEC 7000 Model 600

 o  DEC 10000 Model 600

 PCI Bus Based Systems

 o  AlphaServer 8200 5/300

 o  Digital 2100 Server Model A500MP

 o  Digital 2100 Server Model A600MP

 o  AlphaServer 2100 4/233

 o  AlphaServer 2000 4/233

 o  AlphaServer 1000 4/200

 o  AlphaServer 400 4/166

 o  AlphaStation 400 4/266

 o  AlphaStation 250 4/233

                                  68
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  AlphaStation 200 4/233

 o  AlphaStation 200 4/166

 o  AlphaStation 200 4/100

 The following are the Digital Semiconductor Microprocessor Develop-
 ment Reference Boards supported by OpenVMS Alpha.

 o  Alpha 21064/21064A PCI Reference Board (EB64+)

 o  AlphaPC64 Reference Board (APC64)

 VAX Systems Supported

 This section of the SPD lists the VAX systems that are supported by
 OpenVMS VAX Version 6.2. Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog and
 the Network and Communications Buyers Guide for details concerning VAX
 hardware configurations and options.

 Q-bus Based Systems

 o  MicroVAX II

 o  VAXstation II/GPX[1], VAXstation II/QVSS[2]

 o  MicroVAX 3200, VAXserver 3200, VAXstation 3200

 o  MicroVAX 3300, VAXserver 3300

 o  MicroVAX 3400, VAXserver 3400

 o  MicroVAX 3500, VAXserver 3500, VAXstation 3500, VAXstation 3520,
    VAXstation 3540

 o  MicroVAX 3600, VAXserver 3600

 o  MicroVAX 3800, VAXserver 3800

 o  MicroVAX 3900, VAXserver 3900

 o  VAX 4000, Models 100, 200, 300, 500, 600

 ____________________

1] Graphics Processing Accelerator (GPX)

2] Q-bus Video Sub System (QVSS)

                                  69
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  VAX 4000, Models 50, 100A, 500A, 600A, 700A

 o  VAXserver 4000, Models 200, 300, 400, 500, 600

 NMI Bus Based Systems

 o  VAX 8530, VAXserver 8530, VAX 8550,
    VAXserver 8550

 o  VAX 8700, VAXserver 8700

 o  VAX 8800, VAX 8810, VAX 8820, VAX 8830,
    VAX 8840

 o  VAXserver 8800, VAXserver 8810, VAXserver 8820, VAXserver 8830, 
    VAXserver 8840

 XMI Bus Based Systems

 o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 210, 220, 230, 240

 o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 310, 320, 330, 340, 360

 o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 410, 420, 430, 440, 450, 460

 o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 510, 520, 530, 540, 550, 560

 o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 610, 620, 630, 640, 650, 660

 o  VAXserver 6000, Models 210, 220, 310, 320, 410, 420, 510, 520

 o  VAX 8530, VAX 8550, VAXserver 8530,
    VAXserver 8550

 o  VAX 8700, VAXserver 8700

 o  VAX 8800, VAX 8810, VAX 8820, VAX 8830,
    VAX 8840

 o  VAXserver 8800, VAXserver 8810, VAXserver 8820, VAXserver 8830, 
    VAXserver 8840

 o  VAX 7000, Models 610, 620, 630, 640, 650, 660

                                  70
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  VAX 10000, Models 610, 620, 630, 640, 650, 660

 VAXBI Bus Based Systems

 o  VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAXserver 8200,
    VAXserver 8250

 o  VAX 8300, VAX 8350, VAXserver 8300,
    VAXserver 8350

 SBI Bus Based Systems

 o  VAX 11/780, VAX 11/785

 o  VAX 8600, VAX 8650, VAXserver 8600,
    VAXserver 8650

 CMI Bus Based Systems

 o  VAX 11/750

 Special System Specific Internal Bus

 o  VAX 11/730

 o  MicroVAX 2000, VAXstation 2000,
    VAXstation 2000/GPX,
    VAXstation 2000/MFB[3]

 o  VAXft 3000, Models 110, 310, 410, 610, 612

 o  MicroVAX 3100, Models 10, 10E, 20, 20E, 30,
    40, 80, 85, 90, 95

 o  VAXserver 3100, Models 10, 10E, 20, 20E

 o  VAXstation 3100, Models 30, 38, 40, 48, 76

 o  VAXstation 3100/GPX, Models 38, 48, 76

 o  VAXstation 3100/SPX[4], Models 38, 48, 76

 ____________________

3] Monochrome Frame Buffer (MFB)

4] 2D Scanline Processor Accelerator Graphics System (SPX)

                                  71
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 o  VAXstation 4000, Models 60, 90

 o  VAXstation 4000-VLC

 o  VAX 9000, Models 110, 110VP[5], 210, 210VP,
    310, 310VP

 o  VAX 9000, Models 320, 320VP, 330, 330VP,
    340, 340VP

 o  VAX 9000, Models 410, 410VP, 420, 420VP,
    430, 430VP

 o  VAX 9000, Models 440, 440VP

 System Restrictions

 The following list describes version specific restrictions. The 
 DECwindows Motif environment is not supported on these systems.

 MicroVAX I/VAXstation I Systems

 The final version of OpenVMS VAX that supports these systems is VMS
 V5.1-1.

 VAX-11/725

 VMS V5.1 was the final version to support the
 VAX-11/725.

 VAX-11/730 System

 The VAX-11/730 system supports additional memory to a maximum of 5 MB
 for systems configured with R80/RL02 or dual RL02 disks. Other VAX-11
 /730 system configurations support a maximum of 3 MB of memory for the
 VAX-11/730 only. To run OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1, 4 MB of memory is re-
 quired.

 ____________________

5] Vector Processor (VP)

                                  72
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 OpenVMS VAX 6.2 is planned to be the final version to support the fol-
 lowing systems:
 VAX-11/730
 VAX-11/750
 VAX-11/751
 VAX-11/780
 VAX-11/782
 VAX-11/785
 MicroVAX I
 VAXstation I































                                  73
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


endix A

s appendix describes Digital Equipment Corporation terminals, disks,
es, controllers, graphics, and network options. Some restrictions
 specific devices are listed, if applicable.

tal reserves the right to change the number and type of devices
orted by OpenVMS Alpha, OpenVMS VAX, DECnet for OpenVMS Alpha, 
et-VAX, DECnet/OSI, and OpenVMS Cluster Software. The minimum hardware
irements for future versions and updates of these software products 
be different from current hardware requirements. For configuration de-
s about Alpha or VAX hardware, refer to the Systems and Options
log and the Network and Communications Buyers Guide.

r to the following SPDs for detailed product information: DECnet 
OpenVMS (SPD 48.48.xx), DECnet/OSI (SPD 50.45.xx, 25.03.xx) and 
VMS Cluster Software (SPD 29.78.xx).

minals and Terminal Line Interfaces

prevent input from overflowing a buffer, terminals use the ASCII
trol characters DC1 and DC3 for synchronization as defined by Dig-
l's DEC STD 111, Revision A. VXT windowing terminals support stan-
d ANSI applications and X windows using the LAT transport proto-
.

 following table lists the terminals that are supported by Open-
 Alpha:

 VT200 series   VT300  series   VT400 series

 VT500 series   VXT 2000 series

e following table lists the terminals that are supported by Open-
S VAX:



                                  74
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 VT52           VT100-         LA-series
                series

 VT300-         VT1000-        LQP02
 series         series

 VT200-series   VT500-series


erminals on Professional 350, Rainbow 100, and DECmate II systems em-
late VT100 terminals.

nly limited support is available for the VT52. The VT131, when run-
ing an application, operates in block mode. When interacting with Open-
MS VAX and associated utilities, the VT131 operates only in VT100 (or
nteractive) mode and not in block mode.

ote: The VT1000 is a monochrome windowing terminal that supports stan-
ard ANSI applications and "X" windows. The transport protocols sup-
orted are LAT for VMS. The product supports 15-inch and 19-inch mon-
tors.

isks

he first column lists the disk drive. The second column is a descrip-
ion of the device. The third column lists the bus the device is sup-
orted on. The fourth column lists the minimum required version of Open-
MS Alpha that supports these devices.The fifth column lists the min-
mum required version of OpenVMS VAX that supports these devices. ("NS"
tands for "Not Supported")










                                  75
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 EF51R    107 MB solid      DSSI    NS         5.5-2
          state

 EF52R    205 MB solid      DSSI    NS         5.5-2
          state

 EF53     267 MB solid      DSSI    NS         5.5-2
          state

 ESE-     120 MB solid      SDI     NS
 20       state

 ESE-     120 MB solid      SDI     1.0        5.5-2
 52       state

 ESE-     600 MB solid      SDI     1.5        5.5-2
 56       state

 ESE-     960 MB solid      SDI     1.5        5.5-2
 58       state

 EZ51R    100 MB solid      SCSI    1.5        5.5-2
          state

 EZ54R    467 MB solid      SCSI    1.5        5.5-2
          state

 EZ58R    855 MB solid      SCSI    1.5        5.5-2
          state

 RA60     205 MB remov-     SDI     NS         6.1
          able

 RA70     280 MB fixed      SDI     NS         6.1

 RA71     700 MB fixed      SDI     NS         5.4-2
          disk

 RA72     1 GB fixed        SDI     1.0        5.4-2
          disk

 RA73     2 GB fixed        SDI     1.0        5.5-2
          disk

                                  76
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 RA80[1]  128 MB fixed      SDI     NS         6.1
          disk

 RA81     456 MB fixed      SDI     NS         6.1
          disk

 RA82     622 MB fixed      SDI     NS         6.1
          disk

 RA90     1.2 GB fixed      SDI     1.0        6.1
          disk

 RA92     1.5 GB fixed      SDI     1.0        6.1
          disk

 RC25[3]  2 disks each      Q-bus   NS         6.1
          26 MB (1
          fixed and
          1 removable)
          disk drive
          with shared
          spindle

 RD32[3]  VAX 42 MB         Q-bus   NS
          fixed disk

 RD51[3]  10 MB fixed       Q-bus   NS         6.1
          disk

 RD52[3]  31 MB fixed       Q-bus   NS         6.1
          disk

 RD53[3]  71 MB fixed       Q-bus   NS
          disk

 RD54     159 MB fixed      Q-bus   NS
          disk

 RF30     150 MB fixed      DSSI    NS         6.1
          disk

 RF31     381 MB fixed      DSSI    1.5
          disk

                                  77
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 RF31F    200 MB fixed      DSSI    NS         5.4-2
          disk

 RF31T    381 MB fixed      DSSI    1.5        5.5-2
          disk

 RF35     800 MB fixed      DSSI    1.0        5.5
          disk

 RF36     1.6 GB fixed      DSSI    6.1        6.0
          disk

 RF71     400 MB fixed      DSSI    1.5        6.1
          disk

 RF72     1 GB fixed        DSSI    1.5        5.5-2
          disk

 RF74     3.5 GB fixed      DSSI    6.1        6.0
          disk

 RK06[3]  14 MB remov-      UNIBUS  NS
          able disk

 RK07[3]  28 MB remov-      UNIBUS  NS
          able disk

 RL02[3]  10 MB remov-      UNIBUS  NS
          able disk

 RM03+    67 MB remov-      M-      NS
          able disk         bus

 RM05     256 MB remov-     M-      NS
          able disk         bus

 RM80[1]  124 MB fixed      M-      NS
          disk              bus

 R80[4]   124 MB fixed              NS
          disk drive for
          VAX-11/725 and
          VAX-11/730

                                  78
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 RRD40[3] 600 MB read-      Q-bus   NS
          only optical      and
          disk drive        SCSI

 RRD42    600 MB read-      SCSI    1.0        5.4-2
          only optical
          disk drive

 RRD43    680 MB read-      SCSI    6.1        5.5-2
          only optical
          disk drive

 RRD44    680 MB read-      SCSI    6.1
          only optical
          disk drive

 RRD50[3] 600 MB read-      Q-bus   NS
          only optical
          disk drive

 RP05[4]  88 MB re-         M-      NS
          movable disk      bus
          drive

 RP06     176 MB re-        M-      NS
          movable disk      bus
          drive

 RP07     516 MB fixed      M-      NS
          disk drive        bus

 RWZ01    594 MB optical    SCSI    1.0
          removable disk
          drive

 RX02[3]  512 KB            UNIBUS  NS
          diskette

 RX23     1.47 MB           SCSI    NS
          diskette

                                  79
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 RX26     2.8 MB            I82077  1.5-1H1
          diskette drive

 RX26     2.8 MB            SCSI    1.0        5.5
          diskette drive

 RX33[3]  1.2 MB            Q-bus   NS
          diskette
          drive. Re-
          quires minimum
          RQDX3 mi-
          crocode of
          V3.0

 RX50[3]  400 KB            Q-bus   NS
          diskette

 RV20[3]  2 GB Write        Q-bus,  NS
          Once Read Many    UNIBUS,
          optical disk      VAXBI
          drive
 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 RV64[3]  2 GB Write        Q-bus,  NS
          Once Read Many    UNIBUS,
          optical disk      VAXBI
          sub-system

 RZ22[3]  52 MB fixed       SCSI    NS
          disk

 RZ23[4]  104 MB fixed      SCSI    NS
          disk

 RZ23L[1] 121 MB fixed      SCSI    1.5        5.4-1
          disk

                                  80
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 RZ24     209 MB fixed      SCSI    1.5        6.1
          disk

 RZ24L    245 MB fixed      SCSI    1.0        5.4-3
          disk

 RZ25     425 MB fixed      SCSI    1.0        5.4-3
          disk

 RZ25L    500 MB fixed      SCSI    1.5        5.5-2
          disk

 RZ25M    540 MB fixed      SCSI    6.1        6.1
          disk

 RZ26     1.05 GB fixed     SCSI    1.0        5.5-2
          disk

 RZ26B    1.05 GB fixed     SCSI    1.5        6.0
          disk

 RZ26L    1.0 GB fixed      SCSI    1.5        5.5-2
          disk

 RZ28     2.1 GB fixed      SCSI    1.5        5.5-2
          disk

 RZ28B    2.1 GB fixed      SCSI    1.5        6.0
          disk

 RZ29B    4.4 GB fixed      SCSI    6.1        NS
          disk

 RZ35     852 MB fixed      SCSI    NS         5.4-3
          disk

 RZ55     332 MB fixed      SCSI    1.0        6.1
          disk

 RZ56     665 MB fixed      SCSI    1.0        6.1
          disk

 RZ57[2]  1 GB fixed        SCSI    1.5        5.4-3
          disk

                                  81
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Disk                               Alpha
 Drive____Description_______Bus_____Version____VAX_Version__________

 RZ58     1.35 GB fixed     SCSI    1.0        5.5
          disk

 RZ73     2 GB fixed        SCSI    1.0        6.0
 _________disk______________________________________________________

 Disk Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise Integration
 Center (SEIC) - VAX only

 RF30-RA    150 MB removable    (DSSI)
            disk

 RF31-RA    381 MB removable    (DSSI)
            disk

 RF71-RA    400 MB removable    (DSSI)
            disk

 RF71-RA    1 GB removable      (DSSI)
            disk

 RWZ01      594 MB optical      (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
            removable disk

apes

he first column lists the device name. The second column is a descrip-
ion of the device. The third column lists the bus the device is sup-
orted on. The fourth column lists the minimum required version of Open-
MS Alpha and the fifth column lists the minimum required version of
penVMS VAX that supports these devices. ("NS" stands for "Not Sup-
orted")

 ____________________
 Specific tailoring is required in order to use this device as an Open-
 VMS Alpha or VAX system disk with the DECwindows Motif environment.
 Minimum revision firmware is V6000.
 Device cannot be used as an OpenVMS VAX system disk.
 Device cannot be used as an OpenVMS VAX system disk with DECwindows
 Motif environment.

                                  82
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                    Alpha
 Tape____Description_______Bus______Version____VAX_Version__________

 TA78    1600/6250 BPI,    STI      1.0
         STI TU78

 TA79    STI TU79          STI      NS

 TA81    145 MB tape       STI      1.0
         drive

 TA90    1.2 GB tape       STI      1.0
         cartridge
         subsystem.
         (5-inch 200 MB
         cartridge)

 TA90E   1.2 GB tape       STI      NS
         cartridge
         subsystem.
         Compacts
         data records
         automatically

 TA91    High perfor-      STI      NS         5.4-2
         mance tape
         drive

 TE16    9-track mag-      M-BUS    NS
         netic tape
         drive

 TF70    290 MB TK70       DSSI     NS         5.4-2
         tape cartridge
         drive

 TF85    2.6 GB stream-    DSSI     6.1        5.5-2
         ing tape
         cartridge
         drive

                                  83
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                    Alpha
 Tape____Description_______Bus______Version____VAX_Version__________

 TF857   18.2 GB tape      DSSI     6.1        5.5-2
         cartridge
         loader

 TF86    6.0 GB DLT        DSSI     6.1        6.1
         tape cartridge

 TF867   42 GB DLT tape    DSSI     6.1        6.1
         loader

 TK50    95 MB, 5 1/4-     Q-bus    NS
         inch streaming    and
         tape cartridge    SCSI
         drive

 TK70    296 MB, 5 1/4-    Q-bus    NS
         inch streaming
         tape cartridge
         drive

 TKZ09   5.0 GB, 8mm       SCSI     1.5
         tape drive

 TKZ60   200 MB, 3480      SCSI     1.0
         tape drive
         (no compres-
         sion)

 TLZ04   1.2 GB, 4mm,      SCSI     1.0
         DAT tape drive

 TLZ06   4 GB, 4mm, DAT    SCSI     1.0        6.1
         tape drive

 TLZ07   8 GB, 4mm, DAT    SCSI     6.1        6.1
         tape drive

 TLZ08   5.25-inch, 2      SCSI     NS
         GB, 8mm tape
         drive

                                  84
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                    Alpha
 Tape____Description_______Bus______Version____VAX_Version__________

 TLZ6L   4 GB, 3.5-        SCSI     6.1
         inch, 4mm DAT
         tape loader
 ___________________________________________________________________
                                    Alpha
 Tape____Description_______Bus______Version____VAX_Version__________

 TLZ7L   8 GB, 3.5-        SCSI     6.1        6.1
         inch, 4mm DAT
         tape loader

 TS05    9-track mag-      Q-bus    NS
         netic tape
         drive

 TS11    9-track mag-      UNIBUS   NS
         netic tape
         drive

 TSZ05   1600 bits/in      SCSI     1.5
         tape drive

 TSZ07   1600/6250 BPI     SCSI     1.0
         tape drive

 TU77    9-track mag-      M-BUS    NS
         netic tape
         drive

 TU78    9-track mag-      M-BUS    NS
         netic tape
         drive

 TU80    9-track mag-      UNIBUS   NS
         netic tape
         drive

 TU81    9-track mag-      UNIBUS   NS
         netic tape
         drive

                                  85
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                    Alpha
 Tape____Description_______Bus______Version____VAX_Version__________

 TU81-   Streaming 9-      Q-bus,   NS
 Plus    track magnetic    UNIBUS,
         tape drive        VAXBI

 TZ30    95 MB, half-      SCSI     1.0
         height DLT
         tape drive

 TZ85    2.6 GB DLT        SCSI     1.0
         tape drive

 TZ857   18 GB, DLT        SCSI     1.0
         tape loader

 TZ86    6.0 GB, DLT       SCSI     1.5
         tape drive

 TZ867   42 GB, DLT        SCSI     1.5
         tape loader

 TZ87    20 GB, DLT        SCSI     6.1        6.1
         tape drive

 TZ875   100 GB, DLT       SCSI     6.1        6.1
         tape loader

 TZ877   140 GB, DLT       SCSI     6.1        6.1
         tape loader

 TZK08   2.2 GB 8mm,       SCSI     6.1
         tape drive

 TZK10   320/525 MB,       SCSI     1.0
         QIC tape drive

 TZK11   2.0 GB, QIC       SCSI     6.1
 ________tape_drive_________________________________________________

 Controllers

                                  86
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 HS111         StorageWorks FDDI StorageServer. 

 HS121         StorageWorks FDDI StorageServer. 

 HSC40         Hierarchical storage controller for MSCP served
               disks and TMSCP served tapes. (HSC software must be
               at minimum Version 8.1.) Refer to SPD 42.81.xx for
               supported configurations.

 HSC50         Hierarchical storage controller for MSCP served
               disks and TMSCP served tapes. (HSC software must be
               at minimum Version 4.1.) Refer to SPD 32.96.xx for
               supported configurations.

 HSC60         Hierarchical storage controller for MSCP served
               disks and TMSCP served tapes. (HSC software must be
               at minimum Version 8.1.) Refer to SPD 42.81.xx for
               supported configurations.

 HSC65         Hierarchical storage controller for MSCP served
               disks and TMSCP served tapes. (HSC software must be
               at minimum Version 8.1.) Refer to SPD 42.81.xx for
               supported configurations.

 HSC70         Hierarchical storage controller for MSCP served
               disks and TMSCP served tapes. (HSC software must be
               at minimum Version 8.1.) Refer to SPD 42.81.xx for
               supported configurations.

 HSC90         Hierarchical storage controller for MSCP served
               disks and TMSCP served tapes. (HSC software must be
               at minimum Version 8.1.) Refer to SPD 42.81.xx for
               supported configurations.

 HSC95         Hierarchical storage controller for MSCP served
               disks and TMSCP served tapes. (HSC software must be
               at minimum Version 8.1.) Refer to SPD 42.81.xx for
               supported configurations.

 HSD05         DSSI to SCSI-2 FSE StorageWorks bus adapter
               (Firmware must be at minimum Version X36.)

 HSD10         DSSI to SCSI-2 FSE StorageWorks bus adapter

                                  87
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 HSD30         DSSI based StorageWorks controller that supports
               up to 3 SCSI-2 FSE ports. (HSD firmware must be at
               minimum Version V15D.)

 HSJ30         DSSI based StorageWorks controller that supports
               up to 3 SCSI-2 FSE ports. (HSJ firmware must be at
               minimum Version V15J.)

 HSJ40         DSSI based StorageWorks controller that supports
               up to 6 SCSI-2 FSE ports. (HSJ firmware must be at
               minimum Version V15J.)

 HSZ40-BX      Fast Wide Differential SCSI based StorageWorks con-
               troller that supports up to 6 SCSI-2 FSE ports. (HSZ
               firmware must be at minimum Version V2.5Z.)

 KDM70         Mass-storage controller for XMI systems with eight
               SDI ports.

 KFESA         Mass-storage controller for EISA systems with one
               DSSI port. (Alpha only)

 KFESB         Mass-storage controller for EISA systems with one
               DSSI port. (Alpha only)

 KFMSB         Mass-storage controller for XMI systems with two
               DSSI ports. (Alpha only)

 KZESC-AA      Backplane RAID controller for EISA systems with one
               SCSI-2 FSE port. (Alpha only)

 KZESC-BA      Backplane RAID controller for EISA systems with
               three SCSI-2 FSE ports. (Alpha only)

 KZMSA         Mass-storage controller for XMI systems with two
               SCSI ports. (Limited SCSI-2 support - Alpha only)

 KZPSA         Mass-storage adapter for PCI systems with one SCSI-2
               FWD port. (Alpha only)

 KZPSC-AA      Backplane RAID controller for PCI systems with one
               SCSI-2 FSE port. (Alpha only)

 KZPSC-BA      Backplane RAID controller for PCI systems with three
               SCSI-2 FSE ports. (Alpha only)

                                  88
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 KZPAA         Mass-storage adapter for PCI systems with one SCSI-2
               FSE port. (Alpha only)

 KZTSA         Mass-storage adapter for TURBOchannel systems with
               one SCSI-2 FWD port. (Alpha only)

 PB2HA-SA      Mass-storage controller for EISA systems with one
               SCSI port. (Limited SCSI-2 support - (Alpha only)
               On systems with no greater than 1GB of memory.)

 PMAZB         Mass-storage adapter for TURBOchannel systems with
               two SCSI-2 FSE ports. (Alpha only)

 PMAZC         Mass-storage adapter for TURBOchannel systems with
               two fast SCSI-2 FSE ports. (Alpha only)

 Controllers - VAX only

 HSZ10         SCSI based StorageWorks controller that supports up
               to 2 SCSI-2 ports.

 IDC           Integrated Disk Controller for VAX-11/725 and VAX-11
               /730 systems.

 IDTC          Integral Disk and Tape Controller for VAX 8600 and
               VAX 8650 systems.

 LPA11-K       Microprocessor controller for laboratory acquisition
               I/O devices, accommodating up to two AD11-Ks, one
               AA11-K, one KW11-K, two AM11-Ks, and five DR11-Ks.
               One LPA11-K controller is supported per UNIBUS and a
               maximum of two are supported per system.

 KDA50         Q-bus MSCP disk controller. The KDA50 disk con-
               troller supports up to four of the following drives:
               RA60, RA70, RA80, RA81, and RA82.

 KDB50         VAXBI MSCP disk controller. The KDB50 disk con-
               troller supports up to four of the following drives:
               RA60, RA80, RA81, and RA82.

 KFMSA         Mass-storage controller for XMI systems with two
               DSSI ports.

                                  89
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 KFQSA         Q-bus to DSSI bus adapter. This adapter allows up
               to seven DSSI storage devices to attach to the DSSI
               bus. (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed in a
               Multi-Host Configuration.)

 KLESI         Q-bus, UNIBUS, and VAXBI tape controller for the
               TU81-Plus, RV20, or RC25.

 KRQ50         Q-bus controller for the RRD40/RRD50 compact disc
               reader.

 KZQSA         Q-bus to SCSI bus adapter. This adapter allows up to
               7 SCSI storage devices to attach to the SCSI bus.

 KFDDA         VAX 4000 model 100 DSSI bus adapter. This adapter
               allows up to 7 DSSI storage devices to attach to the
               DSSI bus. (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed in a
               Multi-Host Configuration.)

 KFDDB         VAX 4000 model 500/600/700 DSSI bus adapter. This
               adapter allows up to 7 DSSI storage devices to at-
               tach to the DSSI bus. (Six DSSI storage devices are
               allowed in a Multi-Host Configuration.)

 LP11          UNIBUS parallel high-speed line printer controller
               for the LPxx printers.

 LPV11         Q-bus parallel high-speed line printer controller.

 RK711         UNIBUS disk controller for RK07 disk drives.

 RL211         UNIBUS disk controller for the RL02 disk drive.

 RQDXx         Q-bus disk controller for MicroVAX and VAXstation
               systems. There is an RQDX1, RQDX2, and an RQDX3
               controller. The RQDXx disk controller supports as
               many as four disk units, with each RX50 diskette
               drive counting as two units. Due to controller lim-
               itations, the system supports a maximum of four
               devices; the number of RD/RX devices the system
               supports depends on the enclosure. The RQDX3 disk
               controller is required for the RD54 and the RX33
               drives.

                                  90
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 RX211         UNIBUS diskette controller for two RX02 drives. One
               RX211 diskette controller is supported per system.

 RUX50         UNIBUS diskette controller for RX50 drives. One
               RUX50 diskette controller is supported per system.

 TM03          MASSBUS tape controller for the TE16 and TU77 mag-
               netic tape drives.

 TM32          BI-bus 9-track tape controller only with large
               record support.

 TM78          MASSBUS tape controller for the TU78 magnetic tape
               drive.

 TQK50         Q-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
               drive.

 TQK70         Q-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape
               drive.

 TS11          UNIBUS tape controller for the TS11 magnetic tape
               drive.

 TBK50         BI-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
               drive.

 TBK50         BI-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
               drive.

 TBK70         BI-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape
               drive.

 TUK50         UNIBUS tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
               drive. One TUK50 tape controller is supported per
               system.

 UDA50         UNIBUS MSCP disk controller. The UDA50 controller
               must have a minimum microcode version of REV 3. The
               UDA50 controller supports up to 4 of the following
               disk drives: RA60, RA80, RA81, and RA82.

 Asynchronous Terminal Controllers - VAX only

                                  91
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 CXA16      16-line serial terminal multiplexer (DEC-423), maximum
            baud rate supported: 38400.
            (No modem control) (Q-bus)

 CXB16      16-line serial terminal multiplexer (RS422), maximum
            baud rate supported: 38400.
            (No modem control) (Q-bus)

 CXY08      8-line serial terminal multiplexer (RS232), maximum
            baud rate supported: 19200.
            (Full modem control) (Q-bus)

 DHB32      16-line asynchronous terminal controller for VAXBI,
            maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (VAXBI)

 DHF11      32-line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423),
            maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (No modem control)
            (Q-bus)

 DHT32      8-line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423). (No
            modem control) (MicroVAX 2000)

 DHQ11      8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
            or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (Full
            modem control) (Q-bus)

 DHU11      16-line asynchronous terminal controller (RS-232-C),
            maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19200;
            DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Full modem control) (UNIBUS)

 DHV11      8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
            C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS
            VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Full modem control)
            (Q-bus)

 DMB32      8-line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum baud
            rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600.
            (Full modem control) (VAXBI)

 DMF32      8-line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum baud
            rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600.
            (Full modem control on first 2 lines) (UNIBUS)

                                  92
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 DMZ32      24-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
            C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS
            VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Modem support dependent
            on configuration) (UNIBUS)

 DZ11       8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
            C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600.
            (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

 DZ32       8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
            C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600.
            (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

 DZQ11      4-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
            C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: OpenVMS
            VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Partial modem control)
            (Q-bus)

 DZV11      4-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
            C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: OpenVMS
            VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Partial modem control)
            (Q-bus)

 Synchronous Controllers - VAX only

 The VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers software product contains the
 synchronous device drivers and is required when using synchronous com-
 munication options. Refer to SPD 29.64.xx for more information.

 DMB32      Point-to-point synchronous interface. (VAXBI)

 DMC11      High-speed local point-to-point synchronous inter-
            face; retired device, no longer offered as an option.
            (UNIBUS)

 DMF32      Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
            (UNIBUS)

 DMP11      Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface;
            (UNIBUS) retired device, no longer offered as an op-
            tion.

                                  93
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 DMR11      Remote point-to-point synchronous interface; (UNIBUS)
            replaces DMC11.

 DMV11      Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
            (Q-bus)

 DPV11      Synchronous, 1 line, half or full-duplex point-to-point
            communication interface supporting DDCMP, HDLC, SDLC,
            or BISYNC protocols.

 DSB32      Two-line, multiple protocol, synchronous adapter.
            (VAXBI)

 DSH32      One-line synchronous (full modem control) and 8-line
            asynchronous (no modem control) communications con-
            troller for the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423 devices are sup-
            ported. Maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19.2
            KBPS (kilobits/second); 9.6 KBPS for MicroVAX 2000,
            etc.

 DST32      Synchronous single-line support for DDCMP up to 9.6
            KBPS, full duplex for MicroVAX 2000 systems. Concurrent
            use with the DHT32 is not supported.

 DSV11      Synchronous, 2-line, half or full-duplex point-to-point
            communication interface supporting DDCMP (1 or 2 lines
            up to 64 KBPS).

 DSF32      DEC WANcontroller 620 - Two-line synchronous commu-
            nications controller designed specifically for the
            VAXft 3000 processors, supporting DDCMP. DDCMP is sup-
            ported at speeds up to 64 KBPS per line for a two-line
            operation.

 Graphics Options

 PMAG          A 24-plane graphics adapter upgrade.

 PMAGB         A multiscreen graphics adapter for
               TURBOchannel systems to connect multiple 8/24-plane
               color or grayscale monitors.

                                  94
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 PMAGC         A multiscreen graphics adapter for
               TURBOchannel systems to connect multiple ZLX 8/24-
               plane color or grayscale monitors.

 PMAGD         A multiscreen graphics adapter for
               TURBOchannel systems to connect multiple ZLX 8-plane
               color or grayscale monitors.

 PBXGA-AA      A multiscreen graphics adapter for PCI systems to
               connect ZLX 8-plane color or grayscale monitors.

 PBXGA-BA      Multiscreen graphics adapters for PCI systems to
 /CA           connect ZLX 24-plane color or grayscale monitors.

 PB2GA-AA      Compaq QVision VGA adapter for EISA systems.

 PB2GA-CA      Compaq QVision VGA adapter for PCI systems.

 PB2GA-FA      ATI Mack-64 CX (2mbDRAM) VGA adapter for PCI sys-
               tems.

 PCXBV-DE      A 15" color quadmode monitor.
 /DG

 PCXAV-FC      A 19" color monitor.
 /FD

 LAN Options

 DEFAA         A high-performance network adapter that connects
               FUTUREBUS+ systems to ANSI FDDI local area networks.

 DEFEA         A high-performance network adapter that connects
               EISA systems to ANSI FDDI local area networks.

 DEFPA         A high-performance network adapter that connects PCI
               systems to ANSI FDDI local area networks.

 DEFTA         A high-performance network adapter that connects
               TURBOchannel systems to ANSI FDDI local area net-
               works.

 DEFZA         A high-performance network adapter that connects
               TURBOchannel systems to ANSI FDDI local area net-
               works. (DMA receive only.)

                                  95
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 DEMFA         A high-performance network adapter that connects XMI
               systems to ANSI FDDI local area networks.

 DETRA         A network adapter that connects the TURBOchannel bus
               to a Token Ring local area network.

 DEMNA         A high-performance network adapter that connects XMI
               systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3 local
               area networks.

 DE422         A network adapter that connects
               EISA systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3
               local area networks.

 DE425         A high-performance network adapter that connects
               EISA systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3
               local area networks.

 DE434         A high-performance network adapter that connects
               PCI systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3
               local area networks.

 DE435         A network adapter that connects
               PCI systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3
               local area networks.

 DE436         A high-performance network adapter that connects
               QUAD PCI systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3
               local area networks.

 DW300         A network adapter that connects the EISA bus to a
               Token Ring local area network.

 PB2CA-AA      A network adapter that connects
               EISA systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3
               local area networks.

 PMAD          A network adapter that connects
               TURBOchannel systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE
               802.3 local area networks.

 LAN Options - VAX only

 DEUNA      Ethernet to UNIBUS controller.

                                  96
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 DELUA      Ethernet to UNIBUS controller. The minimum revision
            level required is F1.

 DEBNA      Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

 DEBNI      Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

 DEMNA      The DEMNA is a high performance network adapter that
            connects XMI systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE
            802.3 local area networks.

 DESVA      Ethernet controller interface.

 DEQNA      Ethernet controller to Q-bus. The minimum revision
            level required is K3. All systems utilizing a DEQNA
            must operate with software data checking enabled. Since
            AUTOGEN will automatically set the correct parameter,
            no system management intervention is required. Not
            supported by VAXcluster software. Not supported for
            any interfaces except for access using QIO or ALTSTART
            interfaces.

 DELQA      Ethernet controller to Q-bus. This is the replacement
            for DEQNA. The minimum revision level required is C3.

 DESQA      Ethernet controller to Q-bus for S-BOX configurations.

 DEFQA      FDDI to Q-bus controller

 DEFZA      FDDI to TURBOchannel controller

 DEFTA      FDDI to TURBOchannel controller

 KFE52      DSSI/Ethernet Adapter for the VAXft 3000. Minimum of
            two adapters per system providing redundant connection
            to the Ethernet and the DSSI buses.

 CI Options

 CIXCD-AC      Native CI adapter for DEC 7000 and 10000 Alpha XMI
               systems. (Minimum microcode version REV 1.0 is re-
               quired.)

 CI Options - VAX only

                                  97
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42


 VAXcluster Software may support multiple CI adapters per system. Re-
 fer to the VAXcluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) for
 the supported configurations.

 CI750      CI Adapter for VAX-11/750 systems. (Minimum microcode
            version REV 8.7 is required.)

 CI780      CI Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and
            VAX 8650 systems. (Minimum microcode version REV 8.7 is
            required.)

 CIBCI      CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode ver-
            sion REV 8.7 is required.)

 CIBCA-     Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode
 AA         version REV 7.5 is required.)

 CIBCA-     Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode
 BA         version REV 5.2 is required.)

 CIXCD-     Native CI Adapter for VAX 9xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
 AA         microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

 CIXCD-     Native CI Adapter for VAX 6xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
 AB         microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

 Miscellaneous

 InfoServer    An integrated hardware and software system that sits
               directly on the Ethernet to provide CD-ROM, hard
               disk, magneto-optical, and tape access to OpenVMS
               clients in a local area network. It supports up
               to 14 SCSI devices and can be used for software
               distribution and initial system load (ISL). For
               more information, refer to the InfoServer Software
               Product Description (SPD 33.20.xx.)

 PC4XD-AA      Parallel/serial port adapter.

 PMTCE         TURBOchannel Extender.

 Miscellaneous - VAX only

                                  98
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 CR11       Card reader. One CR11 card reader is supported per
            system. (UNIBUS)

 DRV11-     General purpose DMA interface. (Q-bus)
 WA

 DR11-W     General purpose high-speed DMA interface - one DR11-W
            interface supported per UNIBUS.

 DR750      High performance general purpose interface for the
            VAX-11/750. One DR750 interface is supported per sys-
            tem. This device may not be used in conjunction with
            the CI750.

 DR780      High performance general purpose interface for the
            VAX-11/780 and VAX-11/785. One DR780 interface is sup-
            ported per system. On the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650 as
            many as four per system are permitted provided that the
            M8297-YA is used.

 DWBUA      XMI to UNIBUS adapter.

 DWMBA      XMI to BI adapter; also the adapter used to connect the
            XMI to VAX expander cabinet.

 DWMVA      XMI to VME adapter.

 DW750      UNIBUS Adapter for second UNIBUS for the VAX-11/750
            system.

 DW780      UNIBUS Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX 8600 and VAX 8650.

 FP730      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/730 system.

 FP750      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/750 system.

 FP780      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/780 system.

 FP785      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/785 system.

 FP86-AA    Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX 8600 and VAX
            8650 systems.

 FV64A      Vector Processing option for the VAX 6000-400.

 H7112      Memory battery backup for VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780,
            VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems. This is
            required for power-fail/recovery.

                                  99
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 KE780      G and H floating point microcode for the VAX-11/780
            system.

 KU780      User-writable control store for the VAX-11/780 system.

 RH750      MASSBUS adapter for the VAX-11/750 system.

 RH780      MASSBUS controller for the VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785,
            VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems.

 SBI        System Backplane Interconnect for the VAX-11/780,
            VAX-11/785, and I/O BUS for the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650
            systems.

 VS40X      4-plane graphics coprocessor.

 WS01X      VAXstation 3100 SPX Graphics option.

 Abbreviations

 DLT        Digital Linear Tape

 DSSI       DIGITAL Storage Systems Interconnect

 EISA       Extended Industry Standard Interconnect

 FDDI       Fiber Distributed Data Interface

 IEEE       Institute for Electrical and Electronics
            Engineers

 I80277     Intel 82077 PC Compatible Floppy Interface

 MSCP       Mass Storage Control Protocol

 PCI        Peripheral Component Interconnect

 QIC        Quarter Inch Cartridge

 SCSI       Small Computer Systems Interface

 SDI        Standard Drive Interface

 STI        Standard Tape Interface

 TMSCP      Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol

 XMI        Extended Memory Interconnect

 M-BUS      MASSBUS

 SCSI-2     SCSI-2 Fast Single Ended
 FSE

                                 100
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 SCSI-2     SCSI-2 Fast Wide Differential
 FWD

 RAID       Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
 local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

  1995 Digital Equipment Corporation.
   All rights reserved.

 [R]  Adobe, Display PostScript, and PostScript are trademarks of
      Adobe Systems, Inc.

 [R]  COMPAQ is a registered trademark of Compaq Computer Corpora-
      tion.

 [R]  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
      chines Corporation.

 [R]  IEEE is a registered trademark and POSIX is a registered
      certification mark of the Institiute of Electrical and Elec-
      tronics Engineers.

 [R]  Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
      registered trademarks of Open Software Foundation, Inc.

 [R]  Motif and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks of Open Soft-
      ware Foundation, Inc.

 [R]  Sun is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc.

 [TM] X/Open is a trademark of X/Open Company Limited.

 [TM] X Window System is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute
      of Technology.

 [TM] OSF and OSF/1 are registered trademarks of the Open Software
      Foundation, Inc.

                                 101
  




 OpenVMS Operating System for VAX and Alpha, Version 6.2's 25.01.42



 [TM] The DIGITAL logo, AlphaGeneration, AlphaServer, AlphaSta-
      tion, Bookreader, CDA, CI, DEC, DEC Ada, DECamds, DEC BA-
      SIC, DEC Fortran, DECdtm, DECmigrate, DECnet, DECprint,
      DECram, DECthreads, DECscheduler, DECtp, DECwindows,
               Digital, DNA, EDT, HSC, InfoServer, KDM, LAT, MicroVAX,
               MSCP, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, Polycenter, Q-bus, RA, RRD42,
               RX, RZ, SDI, STI, StorageWorks, TA, TMSCP, TURBOchannel,
               UETP, UNIBUS, VAX, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX BLISS-32, VAX
               C, VAX COBOL, VAX DIBOL, VAX Fortran, VAXft, VAX Pascal,
               VAX SCAN, VAXserver, VAXstation, VAX Volume Shadowing, VMS,
               VMScluster, VT300, VXT2000, and XUI are trademarks of Digital
               Equipment Corporation.




























                                          102
