
PRODUCT NAME: VAX 2780/3780 Protocol Emulator, Version 1.7    SPD 25.07.14

DESCRIPTION

The VAX 2780/3780 Protocol Emulator (PE) emulates the synchronous line protocol
used by an IBM (R) 2780 or a 3780 Remote Batch Terminal. The emulator provides
the VMS user with a mechanism for transferring data between the VMS
Operating System and another system equipped to handle 2780 or 3780
communications protocols. 

The emulator can be invoked interactively or by a command procedure. The
emulator's command set is designed to let several users share a communications
line. With the appropriate modem options, the emulator is capable of
automatically answering incoming calls. 

Sophisticated operations can be performed by a combination of command
procedures, allowing, for example, unattended operation. Unattended operations
include the ability to detect an incoming call, to establish the connection, and
then to transmit and receive files and recover from transmission failures, all
without the intervention of an operator. 

The PE supports several data formats; a particular format is selected via user
command. Users can select various forms control translation schemes, variable
record lengths or card images, ASCII/EBCDIC translation, and BSC transparency.
The VMS record management facility performs all file I/O. Data can be sent to
files representing print and punch streams; the format of data sent to one
"stream" can differ from the format of data sent to the other "stream". 

The following IBM remote batch terminal features are supported by the VAX
2780/3780 PE: 

^ 2780 Extended and Multiple Record Option

^ Variable Horizontal Forms Control

^ BSC Transparency

^ 3780 Space Compression

^ BSC point-to-point configurations (multipoint is not supported)

The product can concurrently run up to four physical lines, each with a
different set of attributes (e.g., some can be 2780 lines, the others 3780),
depending on the processor, at speeds between 1200 bps and 9600 bps per line. 

Note:  When this software is used on a MicroVAX system, the maximum 
       supported line speed is 4800 bits per second.

INSTALLATION

DIGITAL requires that a customer's first purchase of this software product
include DIGITAL Installation Services. These services provide for installation
of the software product by an experienced DIGITAL Software Specialist. A Network
Profile must be prepared jointly by DIGITAL and the customer. This plan includes
descriptions of the DIGITAL and IBM systems, the physical communications
link(s), the application, the expected traffic, and the anticipated level of
support required. 

For subsequent purchases of this product only experienced customers should
attempt installation. DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase
DIGITAL's Installation Services. 

DIGITAL's Installation Services can be purchased as a separate service. 

Customer Responsibilities 

Before installation of the software, the customer must:

^ Previously have installed all requisite hardware including terminals 

^ Obtain, install, and demonstrate as operational any modems and other equipment
  and facilities necessary to interface to DIGITAL's communication equipment. 

^ Demonstrate equivalency of operation for modems other than Bell System 201C,
  208A or 209A type modems, or in Europe, PTT approved modems. 

^ Provide a relevant file or job that can be submitted to the remote system to
  verify the installation of the software. 

^ Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed by DIGITAL
  and the customer, all hardware, communication facilities and terminals that
  are to be used during installation. 

^ Accept responsibility for proper operation of equipment and software not
  provided by DIGITAL and for conformance of such equipment and software to the
  IBM specifications cited below. 

Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities will be charged at
the then prevailing rate for time and materials. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX or MicroVAX configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum
(SSA 25.07.14-x).

Synchronous communications interface appropriate to the VAX 
processor employed.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System

VAX WAN Device Drivers Kit

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.07.14-x).

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
Warranty Addendum of this SPD. 

WARRANTY LIMITATIONS

DIGITAL has designed this software according to the specifications for IBM 2780
and 3780 data transmission terminals as defined in IBM documents GA27-3005 and
GA27-3063, respectively. 

This software is primarily meant to function with the IBM software listed below.
While this software may function correctly with other equipment and software,
DIGITAL cannot offer its standard warranty for this software unless it has been
tested with such equipment and software configurations and found acceptable to
DIGITAL. 

VAX 2780/3780 Protocol Emulator software has been tested and warranted to work
with the following IBM software: 

              Version        Release 

MVS/SP            2            1.7
JES2 MVS/SP       2            1.7
JES3 MVS/SP       2            1.7
VM/SP                          4.1
RSCS              2            1.0
ACF/NCP           4            2.0
ACF/NCP/EP        2            4.0

Since the introduction of this software, other configurations may have been
tested. Please contact your local DIGITAL office for up-to-date information
regarding listed configurations. 

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-111A*-**
Software Media:	QA-111A*-**
Software Documentation:	QA-111AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-111A*-**

* Denotes variant field. For additional information on available licenses, 
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License 
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the VMS 
Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your
local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service offerings are available from DIGITAL. For more information 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

January 1989
BH-H994O-TE

