PRODUCT NAME: DECnet-VAX, Version 5.1                          SPD 25.03.25
              VMS Network Software (Full Function and End Node)

DESCRIPTION

DECnet-VAX allows a suitably configured VMS system to participate as a 
routing or end node in DECnet computer networks.  With proper network 
planning, DECnet-VAX, Version 5.1 networks can contain up to 1023 nodes 
per network area and up to 63 areas per network. DECnet-VAX interfaces 
are standard components of VMS for use on a local, standalone system. 

The DECnet-VAX end node and full function products are each licensed 
separately for VMS. The DECnet-VAX License Product Authorization
Key (PAK), when registered on a VMS system, enables communication between 
different, networked systems that use the same protocols.

DECnet-VAX is a Phase IV network product and is warranted for use only with 
Phase III and Phase IV products supplied by DIGITAL.

DECnet-VAX offers task-to-task communications, file management, downline 
system and task loading, network command terminals, and network resource 
sharing capabilities using the DIGITAL Network Architecture (DNA) 
protocols. DECnet-VAX communicates with adjacent and non-adjacent Phase III 
and Phase IV nodes (adjacent nodes are connected by a single communications
line).

VMS programs written in VAX MACRO and native mode high-level languages 
can use DECnet-VAX capabilities, but programs executing in PDP-11
compatibility mode can not use DECnet-VAX.

The network functions available to a DECnet-VAX user depend, in part, on 
the configuration of the rest of the network.  Each DECnet product offers 
its own subset of DIGITAL Network Architecture (DNA) functions and its 
own set of features to the user. Networks consisting entirely of DECnet-VAX 
Phase IV nodes have all the functions described in this SPD.  Networks 
that combine different DECnet implementations may limit the functions 
available to the DECnet-VAX user on non-DECnet-VAX nodes since other 
DECnet implementations may not implement certain functions.  Similarly, 
a user of another DECnet implementation may not be able to access all 
DECnet-VAX functions.

The functions available to users on mixed networks can be determined 
by a comparison of the SPDs for the appropriate DECnet products.

Routing

A Full Function DECnet-VAX License PAK must be registered on a node in 
order for that node to operate as a routing node.  For a node to operate 
as an end node, either the Full Function or the End Node DECnet-VAX 
license PAK must be registered on that node.  Full Function DECnet-VAX 
software allows a node to be set up as either a routing node or as an 
end node.

A DECnet-VAX node must function as a routing node whenever multiple 
circuits are used by that node. Routing nodes maintain information on 
the paths to other nodes in the network.  DECnet-VAX end nodes provide 
all the capabilities of DECnet-VAX routing nodes except that end nodes 
cannot route messages on behalf of other nodes in the network. Since end 
nodes do not route messages, they do not need to maintain routing information.
Consequently, end nodes initiate less overhead message traffic than routing 
nodes, and, therefore, consume less processing power than routing nodes.

Adaptive Routing is the mechanism which routing nodes use to ``adapt''
or choose other physical paths should the physical path the routing
nodes are using fail or change line cost.

In addition to adaptive routing, which all DECnet Phase IV implementations 
use, DECnet-VAX supports area routing.  Area routing is a method by which 
DECnet can send and route messages between the nodes in different areas 
of the network.  Up to 63 areas with up to 1023 nodes per area are allowed.  
The network manager has the option of separating a network into areas.  
Area-based DECnet networks are hierarchical networks and some restrictions 
apply to communications from nodes in one area to nodes in another area.  
However, it is not required that all nodes in the network be DECnet-VAX or 
even Phase IV nodes.  Proper network planning is essential when using area 
routing or configuring large networks. Valid topologies are the responsibility 
of the customer.

NOTE:  Only 32 routers are supported on an extended LAN.

A DECnet-VAX node has the ability to communicate with a remote node 
over multiple circuits simultaneously, as long as those circuits are 
all of equal cost and provide the lowest path cost.  DECnet-VAX routing 
nodes will split data transmission of a packet load to a destination 
node via multiple paths if those paths are of equal lowest cost.  This 
capability is called Equal Cost Path Splitting.  This feature can 
increase throughput of data by using all of the best available paths.  
All intermediate routing nodes should also support this feature, and 
all destination nodes must support out-of-order packet caching, in 
order to take full advantage of this capability.

Standard DECnet-VAX Capabilities 

Task-to-Task Communication

For most applications, task-to-task communication can be programmed in a 
transparent manner, where the remote task is treated as a full duplex, 
record-oriented device. Transparent operation is provided via the following 
interfaces:  System Service calls, RMS calls (OPEN, GET, PUT, CLOSE), and 
high-level language I/O statements (which are mapped to RMS calls). A 
nontransparent mode of task-to-task communication is offered via the 
System Service interface, that extends the capabilities provided by the 
transparent mode. These capabilities include support for interrupt messages 
and multiple inbound connect requests.

Using DECnet-VAX, a VMS program written in VAX MACRO or a native mode, 
high-level language can exchange messages with other user programs. The 
two user programs can be on the same node, on adjacent Phase III or Phase 
IV nodes, or on any two non-adjacent Phase III or Phase IV nodes in the 
same network connected by Phase III or Phase IV routing nodes. DECnet-VAX 
imposes no special data formatting requirements on the user.

Network Resource Access

File Access - File access is supported to and from remote DECnet systems 
transparent to VAX MACRO and native mode, high-level language programs 
using RMS. User programs can sequentially read, create and delete files on 
a remote node.

Record Access - User programs can perform record level operations such as 
GET, PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, FIND, and REWIND to access and modify files 
residing on a remote VMS node.  In addition to sequential access to a 
file, several other access methods are supported through RMS using 
DECnet-VAX. These include random access by relative record number, random 
access by key value, random access by Record File Address (RFA), and block 
I/O access by virtual block number.

Proxy Access

Remote users can have access to several (up to 15) proxy accounts 
on a specific remote system.  One proxy account should be designated 
as the default proxy account on the remote system.

Command Language File Management

Most VMS DIGITAL Command Language (DCL) commands can be used to perform 
network file operations. These include: ANALYZE, APPEND, BACKUP, CLOSE, 
CONVERT, COPY, CREATE, DELETE, DIFFERENCES, DIRECTORY, DUMP, OPEN, PRINT,
PURGE, READ, SEARCH, SUBMIT, TYPE, and WRITE.  The operation of 
these commands is transparent except for those commands which invoke 
processing on a specific system (i.e., SUBMIT/REMOTE and PRINT/REMOTE). 
Only a node name added to a file specification is required to invoke the 
network capabilities via one of these commands.

Using the COPY command, a user can transfer sequential, relative, and 
indexed-sequential (ISAM) files between DECnet nodes which support 
compatible file structures and record formats. Between two VMS
systems, sequential or relative files with fixed length, variable length, 
or variable length with fixed control field records can be transferred. 
Similarly, multi-keyed indexed files with variable or fixed length records 
are supported.

The SUBMIT command allows command files residing on a remote node to be 
submitted for execution at the remote node. The command file must be in the 
format expected by the node responsible for execution. Conversely, 
DECnet-VAX allows VMS command files to be received from other systems 
and executed.

A new command, EXCHANGE/NETWORK, which allows for the transfer of files
to or from heterogeneous systems, is now available.  This new command 
gives users the option to transfer file types between MS(tm)-DOS or ULTRIX 
and VMS systems regardless of record semantics.  Unlike the COPY 
command, which preserves file and record organization during a file 
transfer, this command enables the user to modify file and record 
attributes during file transfer

Downline System Loading

DECnet-VAX allows for the loading of an unattended system using the
services provided by the Maintenance Operations Module (MOM).  MOM
provides a set of maintenance operations over various types of circuits
by using the Maintenance Operations Protocol (MOP).  A loadable system 
is a system which has a load device enabled for MOP service functions 
and for which a properly formatted load file is supplied.  Downline
loading involves transferring a copy of the file image of a remote
node's operating system from a VMS node to the unattended target node.
For example, DECnet-VAX permits you to load an RSX-11S operating system
file image from your VMS node downline to the target node.  Load requests 
can come from the local DECnet-VAX operator or from the target node.  
Down-line Loading is supported for DIGITAL server products.  However, 
this facility is not supported by asynchronous DECnet-VAX. 

Downline Task Loading

Initial task images for loadable systems can be stored on VMS file 
system devices and loaded into remote nodes. Programs already executing on 
loadable RSX-11S systems can be checkpointed to the host VMS file 
system and later restored to main memory in the RSX-11S node running
DECnet-RSX.  Overlays for RSX-11S tasks can also be stored on VMS 
file system devices. These features simplify the operation of network 
systems that do not have mass storage devices.

This facility is not supported by asynchronous DECnet-VAX. 

Upline Dumping

Memory images of adjacent RSX-11S nodes connected by DECnet can be written 
or dumped into a file on a VMS system. This facility helps a programmer 
understand what may have caused the RSX-11S system to crash.  This facility 
is also supported for DIGITAL server products.  

This facility is not supported by asynchronous DECnet-VAX.

Network Command Terminal

The DCL command, SET HOST, allows a terminal user on one DECnet-VAX node to 
establish a logical connection to another DECnet-VAX node or other types of 
DECnet nodes that utilize the Heterogeneous Command Terminal Protocol 
(consult the appropriate SPDs).  This connection makes the terminal appear 
as if it were physically connected to the remote system and the operator 
can use all the standard system and network utilities supported by that 
remote node. This capability is particularly useful for doing remote 
program development and allows the terminal users on smaller 
application-oriented systems to utilize the resources of larger 
development-oriented systems.

VMS MAIL Utility

VMS MAIL allows transmission of text messages between users of a 
stand-alone VAX system. The DECnet-VAX software allows users to send and 
receive VMS MAIL to or from users of other VMS systems that operate 
within the same DECnet network.

VMS PHONE Utility

The VMS PHONE Utility allows users to send and receive data 
interactively from one user's terminal to another user's terminal. 
DECnet-VAX increases the scope of PHONE to allow active users on different 
VMS systems in the same network to exchange information.

VAXcluster Alias

DECnet-VAX supports the ability to access some or all nodes in a VAXcluster
using a separate alias node address, while retaining the ability to address
each node in the cluster individually. Not all network objects may be 
accessed using this mechanism. 

At least one node in the VAXcluster must be configured as a router in order 
to use this feature.

Network Management

The Network Control Program (NCP) performs three primary functions:  
displaying statistical and error information, controlling network 
components, and testing network operation. These functions can be performed 
locally or executed at remote Phase III or Phase IV nodes that support 
these functions.

An operator can display the status of DECnet activity at any Phase III or 
Phase IV node in the network. The user can choose to display statistics 
related to the node itself or the communication lines attached to that 
node, including traffic and error data. The local operator can also perform 
many network control functions such as starting and stopping lines, 
activating the local node, and downline loading systems.

DECnet-VAX provides network event logging to a terminal device or disk 
file. The NCP utility can be used to enable and disable the event logging 
facility.

NCP can also be used to test components of the network. NCP enables 
transmission and reception of test messages over individual lines either 
between nodes or through other controller loopback arrangements. The
messages can then be compared for possible errors. NCP allows performance 
of a logical series of tests that will aid in isolating network problems.

Integrated Interfaces

DECnet-VAX interfaces are standard parts of the VMS Operating System 
for use on local, standalone systems.  Users can develop programs and 
procedures based upon these interfaces for such functions as file access 
and task-to-task communication on individual systems.  Since the 
DECnet-VAX interfaces stay the same, the programs and procedures 
developed on an individual system can be used in a network environment 
without being modified.

Communications Options

DECnet-VAX uses synchronous, asynchronous, Ethernet, and CI communications
controllers to interface with other network nodes.  Synchronous controllers
use DDCMP, either when directly connected or when connected via modems,
to provide full or half duplex communications over point-to-point lines,
or full duplex over multipoint lines.  Asynchronous controllers use DDCMP,
either when directly connected or when connected via modems, to provide
only full duplex communications over point-to-point lines.  (NOTE:  Error 
Correcting and data suppression modems are not supported.  Refer to
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS for a short description of controllers).

Asynchronous lines are supported only to other systems running DECnet-VAX,
DECnet-RSX, PRO/DECnet, DECnet-Rainbow, DECnet-VAXmate and DECnet-DOS.

DDCMP operation is not supported in cases where an asynchronous
physical communication line is emulated by lower level protocols or 
communication subsystems.  Examples of this include X.29 virtual terminals,
asynchronous connections as emulated by terminal servers, and connections
via data switches.

The Ethernet controllers allow DECnet-VAX to use Ethernet as its datalink
transmission medium.  

The CIBCA, CI780 and CI750 employ unique protocols to provide services 
similar to those of DDCMP.

VAX Packetnet System Interface (VAX P.S.I.) is the software product that 
provides an interface to X.25 Packet Switching Data  Networks (PSDNs). 
When DECnet-VAX is used in conjunction with VAX P.S.I., DECnet-VAX can 
utilize a virtual circuit (SVC or PVC) of the PSDN as though it were 
a standard datalink to transmit messages between DECnet nodes.  (Note: 
Up to 128 X.25 virtual circuits are currently supported for Data Link 
Mapping (DLM), depending on CPU loading and capability.  Refer to 
VAX P.S.I. (SPD 25.40.xx) for more detailed information.

A VMS system can be used as either a control or a tributary node in a
multipoint environment.  DECnet-VAX supports a maximum of 32 tributaries 
controlled by one or more DMP11 or DMV11 control stations on a single node; 
a maximum of 8 tributaries can be controlled on one DMV11 multipoint line 
and a maximum of 16 tributaries can be controlled on one DMP11 multipoint 
line.  The DMF32 may also be used with any UNIBUS VAX system as a tributary 
node. The DMP11 can be used in point-to-point communications configurations 
in DMC11 compatibility mode. The DMR11 is program compatible with the DMC11
and is supported in DMC11 compatibility mode as well DMR11 mode.

Maximum throughput for a specific tributary node is equal to the maximum 
aggregate data rate for the control node, divided by the sum of the number 
of active tributaries plus one.

When configuring your system with specific devices, please refer to the 
DECnet-VAX Load Unit Tables included in this SPD for calculating 
configuration loads and for support information.

DECnet-VAX Operation 

DECnet-VAX is implemented under VMS as an Ancillary Control Process 
(ACP) and a network device driver with DIGITAL-supplied executive-level 
components and user-level programs.

The normal VMS protection has been incorporated in the operation of 
DECnet-VAX. For example, incoming connects including file access and file
transfer requests are protected by the normal VMS login and file 
protection mechanisms. Outgoing connects including file access and file 
transfer requests can include user password information that is implicitly 
specified via NCP, or explicitly specified by the user for verification on 
the remote node.

DECnet-VAX Configuration and Performance 

The process of configuring a DECnet-VAX node is based primarily on 
trade-offs of cost, performance, and functionality, while
satisfying the user's application requirements. It can be readily
expected that network applications will range from low-speed, low-cost 
situations to those of relatively high performance and functionality. The 
performance of a given DECnet-VAX node is a function not only of
the expected network traffic and resultant processing, but also of the 
amount of concurrent processing specific to that node. Thus node 
performance depends on many factors, including:

^  CPU type

^  Number of device interrupts per unit time

^  Communication line characteristics

^  Number and size of buffers

^  Message size and frequency of transmission

^  Applications in use

^  Size and frequency of route-through traffic (routing nodes only)

It is important to note that the rate at which user data can be transmitted 
(throughput) over a communications line can sometimes approach, but will 
never exceed, the actual line speed. The reason is that the actual 
throughput is a function of many factors, including the line quality, 
protocol overhead, topology and network application(s), as well as the 
factors cited in this section.

Refer to the DECnet-VAX Load Unit Tables for maximum system configuration 
information.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Note: IF A DEVICE IS NOT LISTED, THEN THAT DEVICE IS NOT SUPPORTED 
      BY DECnet-VAX.

      A "*" equals retired devices, no longer offered as an option.

Refer to VMS Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx) for hardware requirements 
and processor support.  Reference can be made to the configuration charts 
listed in the VMS Operating System SPD.  For general device or controller 
descriptions, please refer to the Networks and Communications Buyers Guide.

One of the following communication devices is required:

DEUNA-AA          Ethernet controller interface

DELUA             Ethernet controller interface, Minimum revision 
   	          level F1 required.

DEBNA		  Ethernet 802.3-to-VAXBI Port Controller interface 
		  replacement for DEBNT.  Concurrent use with DEBNT
		  is not supported.  The TK50/Ethernet port option 
		  is supported for concurrent TK50/Ethernet operation 
		  on packaged 8000 class workstation systems only.

DMC11-AR, -DA     Remote synchronous point-to-point interface, supports
		  V.24/EIA RS-232-C, maximum speed 19.2 kilobits/second,
		  full or half duplex.  Not supported on DWBUA Adaptors.*

DMC11-AL, -MD     High speed local point-to-point synchronous interface,
		  speed at 56 kilobits/second via coax, full or half duplex.
		  Not supported on DWBUA Adaptors.*

DMC11-AL, -MA     High speed local point-to-point synchronous interface,
		  speed at 1000 kilobits/second via coax, full or half 
		  duplex.  Not supported on DWBUA Adaptors.*

DMC11-AR, -FA     Remote CCITT V.35 point-to-point synchronous interface, 
		  speed up to 56 kilobits/second via modems (up to 250 
		  kilobits/second via coax), full or half duplex
		  Not supported on DWBUA Adaptors.*

DMR11-AA          Remote point-to-point synchronous interface, supports
		  RS-423-A up 56 kilobits/second or RS-232-C up to 19.2
		  kilobits/second, half or full duplex.  

DMR11-AC          High speed local synchronous interface with integral modem 
		  for local connection, point-to-point, half or full duplex.

DMR11-AB          Remote CCITT V.35 synchronous interface, speed up to 56 
                  kilobits/second via modems (up to 1000 kilobits/second
		  via local coax), point-to-point, half or full duplex.

DMR11-AE          EIA RS-422 synchronous interface, speed up to 1,000 
                  kilobits/second (Modem switch selectable speeds: 56, 
		  250, 500, 1000 kilobits/second), point-to-point, half
		  or full duplex.  

DMP11-AA          EIA RS-232-C up to 19.2 kilobits/second or RS-423-A (up 
                  to 56 kilobits/second) synchronous communication 
                  interface; can be used as multipoint control or tributary
		  station; half or full duplex; configuration limitations
		  based on number of tributaries.*

DMP11-AB          CCITT V.35 synchronous communication interface. Maximum 
                  data rate 56 kilobits/second; can be used as multi-point 
		  control or tributary station; half or full duplex; 
		  configuration limitations based on number of tributaries.*

DMP11-AC          Local synchronous communication interface with integral 
                  modem (switch selectable speeds: 56, 250, 500 or 1000 
                  kilobits/second; Maximum data rate 500 kilobits/second 
                  FDX or 1000 kilobits/second HDX; can be used as multipoint 
		  control or tributary station; configuration limitations 
		  based on number of tributaries.*

DMP11-AE          RS-422-A remote synchronous communication interface. The 
                  maximum data rate is 1000 kilobits/second; can be used 
		  as multipoint control or tributary station; half or full 
		  duplex; configuration limitations based on number of 
		  tributaries.*

DMF32-LP          Synchronous point-to-point or multipoint (tributary 
		  only) line support for RS-232-C or RS-423-A interface 
		  up to 19.2 kilobits/second, half or full duplex.  
                  Asynchronous point-to-point only line support for RS-232-C 
		  or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, half or
		  full duplex.  Supported on DWBUA adaptors.

DSB32		  Synchronous, 2-line, half or full duplex point-to-point
		  VAXBI communication interface supporting DDCMP (1 or 2 
		  lines up to 64Kbps) with full modem control.  

DMB32             VAX BI controller interface: T1012/H033 half or full 
		  duplex synchronous point-to-point only ports are compliant 
		  with RS232-C, RS422A/RS449, V.11, X.27, and V.35 and are 
		  compatible with RS423A/RS440, V.28/V.24, V.10 and X.26. 
		  T1012/H3033 asynchronous point-to-point only ports are 
		  compliant with EIA RS232-C and compatible with V.28/V.24. 
		  T1012 also compliant with RS423-A, V.10, and X.26, but 
		  H3033 distribution panel is not because of pin limitation 
		  on the 25 pin D-type connector.

DHB32		  Asynchronous 16 line terminal multiplexer support for 
		  EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A for BI based system
		  terminal connections, up to 19.2 kilobits/second.

DHU11             Asynchronous 16 line RS-232-C controller interface, 
		  speed up to 9.6 kilobits/second, full modem control.

DZ11              Asynchronous 16 line support for EIA RS-232-C or 
		  RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, partial 
		  modem control.

DZ32              Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A 
                  interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, partial modem control.

DMZ32             Asynchronous 24 line support for EIA RS-232-C or 
		  RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second. Modem 
		  support dependent on configuration.  

CI750-AA, -AB     Interconnect for VAX-11/750 systems within a maximum 
                  distance of 90 meters. The effective maximum data rate 
                  of the CI750 using DECnet-VAX is limited to 1000 
                  kilobits/second between any pair of nodes.

CI780-AA, -AB     Interconnect for VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAX-11/782,
                  VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems within a 
                  maximum distance of 90 meters. The effective maximum 
                  data rate of the CI780 using DECnet-VAX is limited to 
                  1000 kilobits/second between any pair of nodes.

CIBCA		  CI to BI interface Adaptor.

MicroVAX and VAXstation system configurations ** require one of the following
communication devices: 

NOTES:
	* Retired Device, no longer offered as an option.

	** For VAXstation 2000 systems, only one asynchronous
	   data/modem RS-232C serial line is supported up to 9600 baud.
	   For MicroVAX 2000 systems, up to 4 asynchronous data/modem
	   RS-232C serial lines are supported up to 9600 baud.

DEQNA             Ethernet Controller Interface - Minimum revision level 
		  required is K3.  

DELQA		  Ethernet Controller Interface - replacement for DEQNA.
		  Minimum revision level required is C3.

DESVA		  Ethernet controller interface for VAXstation 2000 and
		  MicroVAX 2000 Systems.

DESQA		  Ethernet Controller Interface for MicroVAX 3300/3400/3500/
		  3600 series, VAXserver 3300/3400/3500/3600 series, and
		  VAXstation 3300/3400/3500 series systems.

DSV11		  Synchronous, 2-line, half or full duplex point-to-point
		  communication interface supporting DDCMP (1 or 2 lines
		  up to 64Kbps).

DMV11-AA          Point-to-point or Multipoint (control or tributary station)
		  synchronous line support for EIA RS-232-C up to 19.2 
		  kilobits/second or RS-423-A (up to 56 kilobits/second) 
		  synchronous communication interface; half or full duplex; 
		  multipoint configuration limitations based on number of 
		  tributaries.  

DMV11-AF	  Point-to-point or Multipoint (control or tributary station)
		  synchronous line support for RS-423-A/449 interface up to 
		  56 kilobits/second; half or full duplex; multipoint 
		  configuration limitations based on number of tributaries.

DMV11-AC	  Point-to-point or Multipoint (control or tributary station)
		  synchronous line support for with integral modem for local 
		  connection up to 56 kilobits/second, half or full duplex; 
		  multipoint configuration limitations based on number of 
		  tributaries.  
		  
DMV11-AB	  Remote point-to-point or multipoint (control or tributary
		  station) CCITT V.35 synchronous line support up to 56 
		  kilobits/second; half or full duplex; multipoint 
		  configuration limitations based on number of tributaries.

DHV11             Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A 
                  interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, full modem control.

DHQ11             Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A
		  interface up to 19.2 kilobits/second, full modem control.

DHT32		  Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-423-A interface
		  up to 19.2 kilobits/second, full modem control for
		  MicroVAX 2000 systems.  Concurrent use with DST32 is
		  not supported.

DST32		  Synchronous single line support for DDCMP up to 9.6
		  kilobits/second, full duplex for MicroVAX 2000 systems.
		  Concurrent use with DHT32 is not supported.  The DST32
		  is not supported on the VAXstation 2000.

CXY08		  Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C interface
		  up to 19.2 kilobits/second, full modem control, for
		  VAX 3000 series systems.

DZQ11             Asynchronous 4 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A 
                  interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, partial modem control.

DZV11             Asynchronous 4 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A 
                  interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, partial modem control.

Note: The following RS-422/423 signals are not supported by the 
      DECnet-VAX or VMS software:

      NS - New Signal
      SR - Signaling Rate Selector
      LL - Local Loopback
      RL - Remote Loopback
      SS - Select Standby

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid and 
licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions.  The HARDWARE 
REQUIREMENTS sections of this product's Software Product Description 
and the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) 
detail any special hardware required by this product.

* V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster 
  Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet and Mixed 
  Interconnect configurations.

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of this 
product may be different from the minimum requirements for the current 
version.

OPTIONAL HARDWARE

Communication devices may be added from the above lists, up to,
but not to exceed the maximum defined by the DECnet-VAX 
load unit tables or the limits imposed by a bounded CPU system as
mentioned in VMS Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS 

VMS Operating System, Version 5.0 
Only the Base VMS Kit component is required.

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

VAX P.S.I. 

VAX P.S.I. Access

VAX WAN Device Drivers kit is required for any synchronous device operation.

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this 
product. DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase 
DIGITAL's Installation Services.  These services provide for 
installation of the software product by an experienced DIGITAL 
Software Specialist. 

VMS Tailoring

For VMS V5.x systems, the following VMS class is required for 
full functionality of this layered product:

^ VMS Required Saveset 

For more information on VMS classes and tailoring, refer to the VMS 
System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

Customer Responsibilities

Before DIGITAL can install the software, the customer must:

^ Ensure that system meets the minimum hardware and software 
  requirements (as specified in the relevant SPDs).

^  Prior to installing DIGITAL hardware or software, obtain, install, 
   and demonstrate as operational any modems and other necessary customer 
   equipment or facilities to which DIGITAL's communication hardware 
   or software will connect.

^  Designate one adjacent node to verify installation/connectivity.

^  Make available, for a reasonable period of time, as mutually 
   agreed upon by DIGITAL and the customer, all hardware 
   communication facilities and terminals that are to be used 
   during installation.

Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities will 
be charged at the prevailing rate for time and materials.

Installation for DECnet-VAX will consist of the following:

^  Verification that all components of DECnet-VAX have been 
   received.

^  Verification that the necessary versions of the VMS software 
   and documentation are available.

^  Verification of the appropriate SYSGEN parameters.

Note:  Should a software specialist be required to modify the 
       previously installed operating system parameters, a time 
       and materials charge will apply.

^  Create any necessary DECnet-VAX accounts and directories.

^  Enable software via License Product Authorization Key (PAK) registration.

^  Define and create a local node DECnet database.

^  Modify the system's startup command procedure to include
   start up of the DECnet-VAX network.

^  Verify the proper installation of DECnet-VAX by running a 
   series of tests to show connectivity to a designated node.

Connectivity to all other nodes within the network is the 
responsibility of the customer.

ORDERING INFORMATION 

DECnet-VAX software is shipped on the VMS kit for all
processors including MicroVAX-based processors.  

You will need a separate license and license PAK for each CPU on which 
you will be using the software product (except as otherwise specified 
by DIGITAL).  Then Materials and Service Options are selected to 
utilize the product more effectively. THE LICENSE OPTIONS ARE 
DESCRIBED BELOW. IF YOU ARE NOT FAMILIAR WITH THE SERVICE 
OPTIONS, YOU MAY OBTAIN THE APPROPRIATE SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICE 
DESCRIPTION(S) FROM YOUR LOCAL DIGITAL OFFICE. 

End Node: QL-D04A*-AA
Full Function: QL-D05A*-AA
Migration Option: QL-D09A*-AA

* Denotes processor variant.  Contact your local DIGITAL Sales 
  Office for Rental License Option Availability.

LICENSE OPTIONS

Single-Use License Option

The Single-Use License is your right to use the software product 
on a single CPU.  Single-Use licensed software is furnished under 
the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's Standard Terms and Conditions 
of Sale.

For your first installation of this software product you must 
purchase as a minimum: 

^  Single-Use License Option, and               

^  One VMS Extended Documentation Option  
   (Includes full DECnet-VAX Documentation)

The license gives you the right to use the software on a single 
CPU and includes the delivery of a License Product Authorization Key (PAK)
to enable the DECnet-VAX software.  The VMS Distribution and Extended 
Documentation Options provides the machine-readable software and 
related documentation. 

To use this software product on additional CPUs, you must 
purchase a Single-Use License Option for each CPU.

The one-time right to copy the software is no longer included
with your Single-Use License Option.  For additional CPUs,
the VMS Extended or the VMS Base Documentation Options are 
optional. Note that the VMS Base Documentation does not include
the full set of DECnet-VAX documentation, but is sufficient for 
those users who need to get started using the basic capabilities 
of DECnet-VAX.

VAXcluster License Option

You are eligible for a VAXcluster license option on your second 
or each subsequent CPU (NOTE: Valid only for 7xx and 86xx class
processors) that is part of a VAXcluster system. This is a Single-Use 
License offered at a reduced price and provides all of the License 
rights described above.  A full price Single-Use DECnet-VAX
License Option (example: QL-xxxxx-AA) is required for the first
CPU in a VAXcluster and a DECnet-VAX VAXcluster license (QL-XXXXX-QZ)
is required for the additional CPUs of a VAXcluster system.  

For software configuration purposes, a VAXcluster system is a set 
of VAX processors, each running the VMS Operating System, where 
each VAX processor has a direct path to every other VAX processor.

Migration Option - DECnet-VAX End Node to Full Function

Current licensed users of DECnet-VAX End Node software are eligible 
for the migration option to upgrade a system from End Node capability
to Full Function capability.  This is a Single-Use License offered at 
a reduced price and provides all of the License rights described above
under a full function license.

For each CPU running DECnet-VAX End Node that is to be upgraded to 
Full Function, you must purchase as a minimum:

^  Migration Option Single-Use License

Documentation Option

You will receive DECnet-VAX documentation as part of either the VMS
Extended or VMS Base Documentation Options.  Note that the VMS 
Extended Set contains the full DECnet-VAX Networking Documentation
while the Base set contains a subset of this information for users
who need only to get started using DECnet-VAX.  You do not need to
order any license option to obtain documentation; you need only 
order those manuals or sets which are appropriate for your needs.

It is suggested that the VMS Extended Documentation option be purchased
as system management becomes more important to you; however, you only
need the VMS Base Documentation option to use the DECnet-VAX software to 
get started.  When revised versions of this software product become 
available, you may obtain additional copies of the Documentation by 
purchasing either VMS option again or by purchasing individual manuals.  
For your convenience, a separate DECnet-VAX documentation-only kit is 
available (QA-001AN-GZ).

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This software product supports the VMS License Management Facility 
and will be enabled by a License Product Authorization Key (PAK) 
which is included as part of the purchase of a Single-Use license.  
License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer 
to VMS Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Utility Manual included in the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

DECnet-VAX licenses also include the right to use VAX/VMS Services
for MS-DOS.  VAX/VMS Services for MS-DOS has separate 
documentation, media kits, and service products.  Refer to SPD 
30.50.xx for further information.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES 

A variety of service options are available. For more information 
on these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with 
the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the 
Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

                        LOAD UNIT TABLES

NOTE:  IF A DEVICE IS NOT LISTED, THEN THAT DEVICE IS NOT SUPPORTED BY 
       DECnet-VAX.

The tables below describe the physical hardware configurations supported by 
DECnet-VAX in terms of CPU type and communication interface. The numbers 
given in the tables are ``load units.''

Load units are incurred when a device is in active operation at the 
indicated speed. An idle device incurs no load. However, in general, 
systems should be configured so they can sustain peak load rates.

Configuration limits such as power supply, air conditioning, and backplane
space requirements are not considered in the following tables. Please verify
system configurations with your DIGITAL representative. In addition, please
note that each device requires its own memory space for buffering and link
control. Particular consideration should be taken when configuring eight or
more DECnet-VAX links on a single CPU; if in doubt, please contact your 
DIGITAL representative. 

                    How to use these tables:

Each communications device belongs to one of three classes. The three classes 
are:

Class I  -    DMA devices with firmware datalink protocol

Class II  -   DMA devices with datalink protocol in handling software 

Class III  -  Low end non-DMA devices with software-handling datalink 
	      protocol and primarily per-character interrupts 

See below for a listing of the communications devices, and the class to 
which each belongs.

Each device class and line speed combination has a number of load units
associated with it, as follows: 

                Load Units by Line Speed and Device Class

                       Line Speed (kilobits/sec)

                                   9.6       19.2     56      >56

Class I                             8         16      45      100

Class II                           10         20     n/a      n/a

Class III                          13         26     n/a      n/a

Note: For speeds under 9.6 kilobits/sec (= 9600 baud), load units are
proportional. Thus a 2400 baud Class III (e.g. a DZV11) line would represent
about 3 units.

Each CPU can support a given number of load units. In general, the faster the
CPU, the greater the number of load units it can support. The load units that
can be supported by each CPU are as follows: 

                      Load Units by CPU Type

       CPU                            Load Units

     VAX 8810,20,30,40			1500
     VAX 8800                           1200
     VAX 8650                           1200
     VAX 8700                           1200
     VAX 8550                           1200
     VAX 8530				 940
     VAX 8600                            790
     VAX 8500                            790
     VAX 6210,20,30,40			 655
     MicroVAX 3xxx, VAXstation 3xxx      640 
     VAX-11/785                          360
     MicroVAX II, VAXstation II          280
     VAX-11/782                          240
     VAX-11/780                          240
     VAX 8250, VAX 8350			 240
     VAX 8200, VAX 8300                  200
     VAX-11/750                          170
     MicroVAX 2000/VAXstation 2000       170 (1)
     MicroVAX I, VAXstation I            100
     VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730              100

(1) For VAXstation 2000 systems, only one asynchronous data/modem 
    RS-232C serial line is supported up to 9600 baud.  For MicroVAX 2000 
    systems, up to 4 asynchronous data/modem RS-232C serial lines are 
    supported up to 9600 baud.

The maximum system configuration, with a mix of device types, is computed 
by adding the load costs (in load units) for each device up to the limit 
for a given processor type.  For general information on possible supported
configurations, see the configuration charts in VMS Operating System (SPD 
25.01.xx).

Example:

For a VAX-11/750 used to route messages in a DECnet network

Assume that the system uses a DMR11 (Class I device) at 500 kilobits/sec, a
DMR11 (Class I device) at 19.2 kilobits/sec, and the synchronous line of a
DMF32 (Class I device) at 19.2 kilobits/sec. When the network is heavily used, 
the processor loading totals 136 load units. Adding a device with a load of
greater than 34 load units (e.g., another DMR11 at 56 kilobits/sec) would mean
that the VAX-11/750 may not be able to sustain heavy demand. 

                   Device Classes

Device Type                      Class

DELUA (1)                         I

DEUNA (1)                         I

DEBNA (1)                         I

DHU11 (2)                        II

DMC11                             I

DMR11                             I

DMP11                             I

DMF32 (synch)                    II

DMF32 (2) (asynch)               II

DSB32				 II

DMB32 (synch)                    II

DMB32 (2) (asynch)               II

DSV11				 II

DMV11 (3)                         I

DZ11 (2)                        III

DZ32 (2)                        III

DMZ32 (2)                       III

CXY08				 II

CI780 (4)                         I

CI750 (4)                         I

CIBCA				  I

DEQNA (1)                         I

DELQA (1)			  I

DESQA (1)			  I

DESVA	(1)			  I

DHV11 (2)                        II

DHQ11 (2)			 II

DHT32 				 II

DST32 (2)			 II

DHB32 				 II

DZV11 (2)                       III

DZQ11 (2)                       III

(1)   When two or more Ethernet controllers are used on a single CPU, each
      controller must be connected to a different Ethernet cable. These cables
      must not be joined by a bridge or a repeater, though they may be joined by
      another DECnet router. 

(2)   Load costs are for each line of a device at 9600 baud.  Higher data 
      rates are not supported.

(3)   Load costs are for each line at 56 kilobits/second. Higher data rates 
      are not supported.

(4)   DECnet-VAX supports up to 16 VAX systems connected to one SC008 
      star coupler via CI780/750 interfaces.  The effective maximum data 
      rate through the CI780/750 using DECnet-VAX is limited to 1000
      kilobits/second at each node.

In order to achieve a viable configuration the user and/or a DIGITAL 
software specialist must perform a level of application analysis which 
addresses the factors above. 

TM MS is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation

January 1989
AE-D624Z-TE 	

