
         PRODUCT NAME: VAX Distributed File Service, Version 1.1  SPD 28.78.01

         DESCRIPTION

         The VAX Distributed File Service (DFS) is a
         DECnet-VAX layered product that provides VMS
         users with the ability to use remote VMS disks
         as if they were directly attached to the local
         VMS system. DFS provides users and applications
         with transparent, high performance file access while
         using fewer CPU resources than standard DECnet-VAX file
         access.

	 DFS systems can act as ``servers'' or ``clients'' or both.  
	 Servers make file resources available to clients.  The
	 resources can vary in scope from a master file 
	 directory with all of the subordinate directories and 
	 files on a disk volume to an individual directory. The 
	 DFS server gives the resource a network name and 
	 registers it with the VAX Distributed Name Service (DNS).
	 
	 The DFS client can then use the resource by means of the
	 DFS$CONTROL MOUNT command.  This command specifies the DNS name 
	 by which the resource was registered, enables 
	 communication between the client and the server, and 
	 creates a pseudodevice on the client system.  This 
	 pseudodevice makes the remote resource appear to the
	 local system like a local disk. Users can then perform 
	 operations on the pseudodevice, and DFS handles all of 
	 the network access and translation.

	 VAX Distributed Name Service is a prerequisite product.
	 In order to use DFS, DNS must be installed on at least one 
	 system in the network. DNS allows the name of the resource 
	 to be independent of its physical location on the network.  
	 DFS client systems throughout the network can find a resource 
	 by name even if the resource location has changed. 

	 A DFS license is required on each VMS node that acts as
	 either server or client.

         Features

         The features of VAX Distributed File Service software are:

         ^  High performance access to remote disks.

         ^  Applications require no modifications to use remote
            disks, since the disks appear to be local.

         ^  Uses fewer CPU resources than standard DECnet-VAX
            file access.

         ^  Supports all VMS file types.

         ^  Supports the following VMS file operations:

            -  Shared access (read)

            -  Exclusive access (read & write)

            -  All VMS Directory operations, including the
               creation and deletion of directories

            -  Virtual I/O

            -  Mapped I/O

         ^  DFS access is transparent to most of the standard
            VMS DCL commands (those commands which neither
            manipulate identifiers nor use logical, physical or
            write-shared I/O).

         ^  Uses the VAX Distributed Name Service to provide
            location independence of data.

         ^  DFS can be used in any DECnet environment. Both
            Local Area Networks and Wide Area Networks are
            supported. DFS is optimized for line speeds of
            56,000 bits per second and above.

         ^  File security provided through standard VMS
            proxy mechanism. The system manager on the server
	    controls all file access.

         ^  Optional end-to-end checksum provided to guard against
            network faults.

         ^  Management utility allows the user to control DFS
            components and to display statistical and error
            information.


         Restrictions

         ^  Files opened for write are opened exclusively

         ^  Logical I/O is not supported

         ^  Installed files are not supported

	 ^  Opening an RMS journaled file for write is not supported

	 ^  Setting a file journaled or not journaled on a client
	    device is not supported 
	 
	 ^  Access Control Lists are not visible on DFS clients. They
	    do affect file protection checking.

	HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

	VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
	Support	Addendum (SSA 28.78.01-x).

	SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*
	
	VMS Operating System  or
        MicroVMS Operating System

        DECnet-VAX
 
        VAX Distributed Name Service (DNS) must be installed and accessible 
	on at least one system in the DECnet network. 
	
	*Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and
	required versions of prerequisite software (SSA 28.78.01-x).

       	OPTIONAL SOFTWARE
	
	None 
	
	ORDERING INFORMATION
	
	Software Licenses: QL-VEQA*-**
	Software Media: QA-VEQA*-**
	Software Documentation: QA-VEQAA-GZ
	Software Product Services: QT-VEQA*-**
	
	*Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
	licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.


	SOFTWARE WARRANTY
	
	Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
	purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
	Warranty Addendum of this SPD.
	
	SOFTWARE LICENSING
	
	This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
	Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about 
	Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL 
	office.
	
	License Management Facility Support
	
	This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. 
	License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.
	
	For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
	VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
	VMS Operating System documentation set.
	
	For more information on DIGITAL's licensing policies, contact your local
	DIGITAL office.
	
	SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES
	
	A variety of service options are available. For more information on 
	these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office.
	
