PRODUCT NAME: DECserver 500, Version 1.1                      SPD 26.97.01
              For VMS and MicroVMS 

DESCRIPTION

The DECserver 500 series server is an Ethernet Communications Server for
Ethernet Local Area Networks (LANs). The DECserver 500 series server can 
provide up to 128 DEC423, DEC422 or 64 RS-232 asynchronous port connections to
DIGITAL asynchronous terminals. 

RS-232, via the 8 port CXY08 communication option card, DEC423, via the 
16 port CXA16 communication option card and DEC422 via the 16 port CXB16 
communication option card, can be mixed together in any combination from 
2 to 8 cards in one server.  The DECserver 500 series server provides a 
convenient method to logically connect up to 128 DIGITAL asynchronous 
terminals to one or more service nodes (hosts) on an Ethernet.

Once the terminal is connected, a user can utilize application programs and
utilities as though the terminal was directly connected to a host via a DZ11,
DMF32, or DHU11 device, with a few exceptions. Thus, it may be possible to 
utilize the DECserver 500 series server to connect all terminals to service 
nodes in place of traditional interfaces, except for host console terminals.
Remote connection via dial-in modems is fully supported.  Refer to the 
Restrictions section for limitations.

The DECserver 500 series server also allows for VMS host-initiated connections
to asynchronous printers. A special print symbiont on VMS service nodes can 
initiate connections to asynchronous printers connected to DECserver ports.
This allows the printers to be distributed throughout a facility and accessed
transparently by service node users. Incoming host-initiated connect 
requests may be queued FIFO at the server.  This special print symbiont is
included in the software distribution kits for VMS 4.4 and later.

The DECserver 500 series server also provides the capability to connect host
systems that do not support the LAT protocol, DIGITAL personal computers, and
dial-out modems directly to ports on the server. Interactive server users 
can issue commands to connect to services which are offered on such ports. 
Port-to-port connections on the same server are also supported.

The DECserver 500 series server implements the Local Area Transport 
(LAT) protocol for communication with service nodes that implement 
this protocol on the same Ethernet. This interface has been optimized 
for high terminal I/O performance over an Ethernet, while reducing host 
CPU cycles required to handle interrupts. Hence, under most I/O loading 
conditions, a significant performance gain may be realized by using the 
DECserver 500 series server versus direct terminal connections via DZ11s.

Software that runs on the DECserver 500 series server is downline 
loaded over the network from a Phase IV DECnet load host. Terminal 
access using the DECserver 500 series server does not require DECnet 
running in the same service node; LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism 
to transport terminal messages. 

Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal sessions,
automatic failover, and remote printer support can lead to greater
user productivity.

For wide area network (WAN) communications, terminal users can connect 
to a LAN service node running DECnet, where they can ``SET HOST'' to a 
remote system via the DECnet network terminal protocol. If this system 
has the requisite X.29 or SNA 3270 access routines, a terminal user could 
communicate to a remote SNA or X.25 host through the appropriate gateway 
and this intervening host. A DECserver terminal user cannot communicate 
directly to remote hosts through DECnet Routers or X.25/SNA Gateways. Wide 
area network traffic will not provide the same high level of performance as 
local terminal connections, due to the additional DECnet and internet 
protocol overhead.

DECserver 500 Series Options

There are three asynchronous communication options currently offered for use 
in the DECserver 500 series hardware:

^  The CXY08-AA module, containing 8 RS-232-C lines with full modem control

^  The CXA16-AA module, containing 16 DECconnect (DEC423) lines with data- 
   leads-only control 

^  The CXB16-AA module, containing 16 DECconnect (DEC422) lines with data-
   leads-only control

The DECserver 500 series server can be ordered in two versions: 

^  DSRVS-CA/CB  A rackmount version which is most suitable 
   for those customers desiring to utilize a DECconnect, patch panel or 
   punchdown block wiring scheme.

^  DSRVS-DA/DB  A version which includes plastic skins and should be 
   utilized only in those situations where the customer will be placing 
   the unit in an office environment and has capabilities or desires to 
   implement a DECconnect, patch panel or punchdown block wiring scheme.

The DSRVS-AA/AB/BA/BB are also valid configurations for the DECserver 500
V1.1 software. However, all features pertaining to modem control, 
modem support and modem-signal flow control apply to the CXY08 hardware
option only. In addition, it is strongly recommended that the CXY08 option 
be used when directly connecting non-LAT host systems to the server. The 
CXA16 option may be used when connecting most terminals and printers to 
the server.

Features

Terminal Connection Management

Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical 
connection, called a session, to any service node that implements the 
LAT protocol on the same Ethernet LAN. This connection makes the terminal 
appear as if it were physically connected to the service node, and the 
terminal user can use standard system utilities and applications supported 
by that node. Each terminal connected to the server can connect to the same 
or a different service node on the Ethernet. Furthermore, several servers 
can be used to connect many terminals to one or more service nodes.

A service node can have one or more services that are offered to DECserver 
500 series users. Services and nodes are identified by name. Users always
connect to services, not to nodes, although often one of the service names
will be the node name.  Users can optionally specify a node and/or a port
name when they connect to a service.

In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 500 series server sees each
VAXcluster on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering a 
common service.  Each cluster node may also offer a service whose name is
equivalent to its node name. In this case, a terminal user can connect either
to the cluster service or a service associated with a particular cluster node.

Non-LAT Host Support

The DECserver 500 series server can be used to provide logical terminal
connections to hosts that do not implement the LAT protocol. In this type of
configuration, the server becomes the Ethernet connection and protocol support
for these hosts. This expands the LAT network accessibility to the terminal
user to include LAT hosts directly connected to the same Ethernet and hosts
connected to the LAT network via the DECserver 500 series server.  Non-LAT host 
support should be implemented through the use of the CXY08 hardware option only.

A host that supports XON/XOFF, ASCII standards and EIA RS-232-C/CCITT 
V.24/V.28 interfaces can be connected to the DECserver 500 series server. This 
provides the terminal user with a transparent connection to the non-LAT host.
It is strongly recommended that server port and the host side port utilize 
modem control signals to automatically signal the host upon session 
disconnection.  In this application the server port appears to the host as a
dial-in modem.  However, hosts that require more than one transition of the
RING signal are not supported.

In this configuration, there is a one-to-one correspondence between the 
port on a DECserver 500 series server and the connection on the host. The server
manager assigns service names to individual ports or groups of ports that
connect the host interface to the server.

Load Balancing

When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the connection 
is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process the server 
uses when more than one node offers the same service. Service nodes do not 
have to be configured in a cluster in order for load balancing to be used. 
Service nodes with the same names may be running different operating systems.
Using the load balancing process, the server connects to the node
with the highest rating for the service desired. This rating is based on 
the current loading on the nodes that offer the service.

Multiple Sessions

The DECserver 500 series server allows a single user to establish and 
maintain up to 8 sessions to one or more service nodes (up to 64), up 
to a maximum of 256 sessions per DECserver 500 unit when configured with 
a KDJ11-SB cpu processor. When upgraded with a KDJ11-SD cpu processor, 
the maximum number of sessions is 512.  Only one session can be active at 
a time on each port.  Through simple switching commands, the user can access 
the different sessions without repeating a login dialog each time.  The 
number of simultaneous LAT sessions supported by a service node depends 
on the type of operating system running on that node.

Local Mode and Service Mode

For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver 500 series 
server is identical to that the user would experience if attached directly 
to the service node. When operating in this mode, the user is said to be in 
Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during connection establishment, the 
user interacts directly with the DECserver 500 series unit. When operating 
in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by DECserver 500 
software as commands to be performed by the server. 

Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, 
nonprivileged and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the server 
manager to control the environment of the server and the terminal users. 
Access to this mode is password protected. Nonprivileged commands allow the 
terminal user to control their service sessions, set their terminal 
characteristics and show server information. The server manager can set 
the server to secure mode on a per-terminal basis which further limits 
the commands users can enter to only those which directly relate to the 
user's own terminal.

The server manager environment is a logical extension of the user 
environment. The server manager is treated as a server user with a 
privileged status. The server manager sets a terminal to this status 
using a command which requires a password. This privileged status allows 
the server manager to enter commands not normally available to server users. 
These commands set server characteristics, provide control over server port 
usage, and provide the ability to control the user's access to the server 
and network services.

In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected 
service node with several exceptions. One exception, called the local 
switch character, allows the user to enter Local Mode from Service Mode. 
The <BREAK> key may also be used for this function.

Other exceptions, called the forward and backward switch characters, allow 
the user to switch between sessions without the need to enter local mode. 
The switch characters are disabled by default but may be enabled by 
command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally but flow 
control using these characters can be disabled.

Autoconnection

Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user 
terminal to a service node when connection failures occur or upon 
user login to the server. In conjunction with this function, a 
dedicated or preferred service can be specified for each terminal 
user.  If a failure occurs, the server automatically tries every 
30 seconds to re-establish a connection to the desired service.

If a dedicated service is specified for a port, the DECserver 500 
series server attempts to connect the port to that service when a 
character is typed on the terminal keyboard or when an existing 
connection fails. In dedicated service mode, only one session is 
available. As this mode is designed to simulate a direct terminal 
connection, no local mode commands or messages are available to 
the terminal user. Ports with dedicated service can be automatically 
logged out of the server when the user logs out of the service node. 

If a preferred service is specified for a port, the DECserver 500 
server attempts to connect the port to the service as with the 
dedicated service mode of operation.  However, the terminal user can 
enter local mode and establish other sessions.

Automatic Session Failover

If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a 
connection to a service fails, the server attempts to connect 
the user to another service node offering the same service.  The 
user does not have to be already connected to that service node. 
Furthermore, the user's context at the time of failure is not 
automatically restored and login to the new service is required.

Groups

Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of 
one or more groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 
0 - 255. Groups allow an easy means of subdividing the network into 
what appears to be many smaller networks. A terminal user is only 
aware of the services that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).

The server manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which 
a terminal is a member. The authorized groups define the set of 
services that the user is allowed to access. In addition, a user 
can further restrict access to services by disabling some of the 
authorized groups using a non-privileged group command. The 
user-settable groups are a subset of the authorized groups.

Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted 
view is mainly for user convenience and, although it also provides 
a form of security, it is not intended to be the primary form of 
access authorization or system security for a node.  Groups can also 
be used by the server manager to tune the server's usage of its 
available memory.

Security

The DECserver 500 software provides functions which enhance security 
features already available in the service nodes.  DECserver 500 software 
security includes the ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from other 
users, optional login protection, and nonprivileged local mode of 
operation as a default.

A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the 
user to leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of security 
violations. When a terminal is locked, all input from the terminal is 
ignored until the lock password is re-entered. The lock feature may 
be disabled by the Server Manager, but not on a per-port basis.

Each terminal port can be set on the server to operate in a secure 
mode which causes all commands that relate to other users to be 
disabled for that port. 

The server manager can also define a unique password for each set of server
ports offered as a service.  This is useful for restricting access to devices
such as dial-out modems.

Login password protection can be enabled on a per-line basis by the Server 
Manager.  If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to access 
server functions.  The login password is changeable, but is a server wide
password.  
 
There is also a maintenance password for protecting unauthorized 
downline loads of the server or use of the Remote Console Facility 
(RCF) to remotely manage the server.

The DSRLOGOUT feature can be set for any terminal and is used with 
the CXY08 and BC22D, BC17D or BC22R cable to detect terminal power 
down and enact an automatic port logout which disconnects all sessions 
established from that port.

On modem controlled dial-in ports, the server automatically 
disconnects an incoming call if the user does not successfully log in 
to the server within 60 seconds.

In Local Mode, DECserver users normally can use only the server's 
nonprivileged commands.  In this mode, users may only issue commands 
that affect their own terminal environment.  The server has a privileged 
mode for the server manager's use.  This mode is password protected.

Online HELP Facility

A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP 
command provides information on the correct syntax and details about 
each command. In addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users to 
quickly learn the basics of DECserver operation. Tutorial HELP may be 
entered before logging into the server by typing HELP at the username prompt.

Directory Service

Any DECserver user can obtain a directory of services available 
to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the 
user is not authorized will not be displayed.

Permanent Characteristics

Each DECserver 500 series unit has a unique software image on its 
downline load host. A database of permanent characteristics is kept within 
each image.  These characteristics can be changed prior to downline 
load by the server manager or load host manager.   All permanent 
characteristics can be changed by using the Terminal Server Configurator 
(TSC) utility provided in the DECserver 500 software distribution kit.

Port Characteristics Configuration

Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port 
can be displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively 
from their terminal. Many of the characteristics may be setup by 
the user, but certain characteristics are privileged and may only 
be changed by the server manager.

Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed, character 
size, group, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, modem and 
password protection.

Port Access

A port on a DECserver 500 series server may be set up in different ways
depending on the device attached to the port and its intended use.  Port
access is the characteristic which determines how a port may access or be
accessed by interactive users and service nodes. 

^  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the device
   (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to CONNECT to LAT
   services. This type of access is also used for dial-in modems.

^  Access Remote - Designed for applications-driven devices such as
   asynchronous printers which are allocated by a service node process.
   This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by multiple
   service nodes. This type of access is also used for connections to 
   dial-out modems, and non-LAT host systems by interactive users.

^  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as dial-in/dial-out modems or
   printers with keyboards) which require both Local and Remote access but
   not simultaneously.

^  Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable the use of 
   a port. 

With printer support capabilities, the setup procedure of remote printers 
needs to be done once and is automatically reconfigured on server and/or 
system startup. The particular server port must be configured for remote 
access and set up to match the characteristics of the printer. The 
system startup command file must be modified to call the two command files 
provided with the service node software.  Finally, the command files 
themselves must be customized to reflect the environment of their node. 

The server can optionally queue remote connects if these connects cannot be 
satisfied immediately. This queue management can be enabled for the server 
by the server manager. Note that this is a connection queue only. 

Terminal Operation

The DECserver 500 software supports the simultaneous operation of up 
to 128 asynchronous devices at speeds from 50 bps to 38.4K bps under 
specified application conditions. The software also supports:

^  Full modem control support (with CXY08 hardware option only)

^  Data-leads-only support

^  XON/XOFF flow control

^  CTS/RTS and DSR/DTR flow control (with CXY08 hardware option only)

^  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

^  Block Mode transfers

^  Automatic terminal line speed detection

^  DIGITAL personal computer file transfer and terminal emulation

^  Data transparency mode

^  Ability to pass BREAK condition.

Terminals Supported

The DECserver 500 software supports the following DIGITAL terminal devices 
that have keyboards:

^  LA120, LA34, LA35, LA36, LA38, LA75 

^  VT100, VT101, VT102, VT125, VT131

^  VT220, VT240, VT241

^  VT330, VT340 (session management disabled)

Supported terminal parameters are:

Character size: 7 or 8 bits per character

Parity: Even, Odd, or None

The automatic line speed detection (Autobaud) feature is supported for either
seven-bit characters with even parity or eight-bit characters with no parity.

The DECserver 500 software also supports the following DIGITAL Personal 
Computers (PCs) in both terminal emulation mode and file transfer mode:

^  Professional 325, 350, 380

^  Rainbow 100A, 100B, 100+, 190

^  DECmate II

^  DECmate III

^  VAXmate

Note: This product is NOT WARRANTED to support non-DIGITAL terminal devices 
      or personal computers. However, terminals supporting VT100 or VT200-like 
      characteristics and personal computers supporting IBM PC, IBM PC/XT, 
      and IBM PC/AT characteristics MAY operate with this product. 

Printers Supported

The DECserver 500 software supports the following DIGITAL asynchronous printers
when accessed from VMS and MicroVMS systems:

^  LA50, LA200, LA120, LA210

^  LQP02, LQP03

^  LXY12-DA, LXY22-DA

^  LN01-S, LN03S, LCP01

Modems Supported

For DECserver 500 series server with CXY08 hardware option:

^  DF03, DF112, DF124, DF224 and DFM X.29 pad full-duplex asynchronous modems 
   for either dial-in or dial-out use. Also supported are private or leased 
   line modem applications, however, connections to data switches are NOT
   WARRANTED but MAY operate with this product.

For DECserver 500 series server without CXY08 hardware option:

^  None

Server Management

Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server operation. 
The server manager in privileged mode can set up server identification 
information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the operating 
characteristics of the server. The server manager can also assign service 
names to groups of one or more ports which are connected to non-LAT hosts 
or modems. Troubleshooting facilities include diagnostic tests, a remote 
console feature, on-line statistics and modem signal and flow control 
monitoring.

A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by looping 
messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware interface at 
the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can execute a command to 
transmit test data to their terminal.  The server manager can send test 
data to any terminal, optionally using internal or external loopback with
data comparison.

The capability also exists for the server manager to test a service 
connection by sending data from the initiating port to the service 
node and back again. 

The data is then compared and any discrepancies reported. At the service 
node, the data can be looped back by the LAT protocol, or internally or 
externally at the service port. This feature is supported by DECserver 
service nodes; VMS service nodes do not support this service loopback 
capability.

The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These include 
the following: Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol statistics, and 
port error statistics. This data can be displayed and zeroed by the server
manager. 

Remote Server Management

The DECserver 500 software implements the Maintenance Operations 
Protocol (MOP) console carrier protocol which enables access to the 
DECserver 500 series server from a Phase IV DECnet host on the same 
LAN.  The entire local mode user interface is accessible to the remote 
management port user. This includes the privileged commands, if the user 
knows the server's privileged password.  This capability allows centralized 
server management and remote server diagnosis.

The DECserver 500 series server can be remotely managed by the Terminal Server
Manager (TSM) V1.2 software on VMS systems.

Communications

DECserver 500 software is exclusively designed to run on DECserver 500 
series hardware which includes an Ethernet interface for connection to 
an Ethernet transceiver cable. 

The CXY08 hardware option has eight EIA RS-232-C/CCITT V.24 asynchronous 
line interfaces for connecting terminals to the unit. 

The CXA16 hardware option has sixteen DECconnect connections (DEC423) 
for connecting terminals to the unit.

The CXB16 hardware option has sixteen DECconnect connections (DEC422) 
for connecting terminals to the unit.

Using the CXY08 hardware option, each port can be set up by the server 
manager to operate using full-duplex modem control. The CXY08 hardware 
option is compatible with DIGITAL's family of modems and with Bell 100 
and 200 series modems and their equivalents. A BREAK feature is available 
and can be set on a per-port basis. This allows a BREAK condition to be 
passed through from a terminal connected on the server to the non-LAT 
host connected to a port on a DECserver 500 series server.

DECserver 500 Series Server Operation

The DECserver 500 series server provides the necessary Maintenance 
Operation Protocol boot ROM support for down-line loading DECserver 
500 software from a Phase IV DECnet load host over the Ethernet into 
server memory and also for upline dumping. All self-test diagnostics 
are in DECserver ROM, so down-line loading is not a precondition for 
DECserver self-test. In the event of a bugcheck  caused by a fatal error, 
the unit normally attempts to upline dump server memory to a DECnet 
Phase IV host. Following this, the unit automatically initializes 
itself and invoke a downline load.

DECserver 500 Series System Configuration and Performance

The process of configuring the DECserver 500 series system is 
based primarily on tradeoffs of cost and performance within the 
realm of satisfying user application requirements. Network applications will 
range from low-speed, low-cost situations (e.g. connecting remote terminals 
through low-speed modems) to those of relatively high performance (e.g., 
connecting high-speed local terminals to local hosts within a local area 
network or connecting to non-LAT systems). The performance of a 
given server is a function of the expected network traffic, the load 
on hosts to which terminals are connected, and resultant processing pursuant 
to the dedicated function of the unit. Thus performance depends on several 
factors:

^  Number of terminals

^  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

^  Number of active connections to non-LAT hosts

^  Terminal speeds

^  Terminal user applications

^  Number and size of host buffers

^  Terminal workload

The DECserver 500 series server can sustain an aggregate user-data output
throughput (from server to port devices of 160,000 characters per second using
a 20 millisecond timer. The DECserver can sustain an aggregate user-data input
throughput (port device to server) of 14,000 characters per second.

In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a DIGITAL 
software specialist should perform a level of application analysis which 
addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data throughput cannot be 
calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line speed, since many 
factors already discussed in this section may reduce the actual throughput.

Restrictions on DECserver 500 Series Server Usage

While terminal connections using the DECserver 500 series terminal server have
been designed to simulate direct terminal connections as much as possible, a
few differences necessarily exist because of the nature of the product.  Under
most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by terminal users or 
service node application programs. However, applications which are directly 
dependent on the following functions may not operate as with a direct 
connection:

^  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed, 
   character size and parity by manipulating system data structures

^  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typically 
   less than 200 ms) to operate

^  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the service 
   node

^  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device
   names, or to obtain information about the name of the server and/or port

Applications that depend on certain physical device response times or do
their own modem signal handling are not supported.

There are two restrictions which should be noted;  for connections from the
server, the LAT device created has an unpredictable name and for host
initiated connections, application programming will not be supported.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support
Addendum (SSA 26.97.01-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

DECnet-VAX

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE *

Terminal Server Manager 

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions
  of prerequisite software (SSA 26.97.01-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses:  Included with the DSRVS hardware.
Software Media: QA-03KA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-03KAA-GZ
User Software Documentation: QA-03KAB-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-03KA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty  for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum
of this SPD.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

License for this software is included with the purchase of the hardware.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
Licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

September 1989
BH-KN88B-TE
