PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DEC/MAP, Version 2.0            SPD 27.66.01

DESCRIPTION

VAX DEC/MAP software is an implementation of the Manufacturing Automation 
Protocol (MAP) specification Version 2.1, which, when combined with 
prerequisite hardware, as listed below, forms a complete seven layer MAP 
system. This MAP specification embodies the Manufacturing Automation 
Protocol (MAP) Reference Specification draft, dated February 25, 1986.  
It is an implementation architecture based on the International Standards 
Organization (ISO) Open Systems Interconnect (OSI) model as specified in 
ISO/IS 7498. OSI has been developed to allow computer equipment made by 
various manufacturers to communicate using well-defined, internationally
accepted protocols.

The MAP network architecture specifies the protocols and services for
the Physical, Data link, Network, Transport, Session, Presentation and
Application layers.

Layers 1 and 2, the Physical and Data Link Layers, are IEEE 802
compatible (IEEE 802.4 Broadband, 802.4 Token Bus Media Access Control
MAC) and 802.2 Logical Link Control (LLC Class 1) and are implemented
in hardware.

For the UNIBUS VAX, DEC/MAP software implements the Network layer up
through the Application Layer, layers three through seven, respectively, 
with a null Presentation Layer.  The Physical and Data Link Layers for this 
DEC/MAP variant are implemented in external hardware which must be purchased 
separately from a non-DIGITAL supplier.  Refer to the System Support Addendum 
for hardware and software prerequisites.

For the Q-bus MicroVAX, DEC/MAP software implements the Session Layer
up through the Applications Layer, Layers five through seven.
The Physical and Data link layers are implemented in the requisite
hardware, which is a fully integrated communications option not
requiring any additional or non-DIGITAL hardware.  The Layers one
through four protocols are executed in the hardware.

Refer to Table 1 to determine the Specifications and Standards for the
Protocols that are implemented in this product, which complies to the
MAP Version 2.1 Specification.

The DEC/MAP software product includes an extensive Applications
Interface for File Transfer and Program-to-Program communications, and
a Network Management Control Program is provided to display and
manipulate local and remote network management information.

DEC/MAP Network Management includes facilities to modify, maintain,
and monitor counters and events on nodes in the MAP network.  Each
node in the MAP network must have a network management agent (NMA), but
each node does not need a network manager.  DEC/MAP includes a network
manager.

DEC/MAP Layers, Formats And Protocols

Network Management 

DEC/MAP for Q-bus MicroVAX and UNIBUS VAX include a MAP Control Program
that enables an individual network manager to perform the following
functions:

^ Read and Modify local and remote parameters

  These parameters are accessed though DEC/MAP databases, which
  are listed below:

  -  Network Service Provider database (local only)

  -  Transport Service Access Point (TSAP) database (local only)

  -  Transport Layer database

  -  Remote Transport Service Provider (RTSP) database (local UNIBUS 
     systems only)

  -  Event Logging database (local only)

  -  Internet database

  -  Session Layer database

  -  Application Layer database

  -  Cache database (local only)

  -  LLC database (local Q-bus systems only)

  -  MAC database (local Q-bus systems only)

   -  Physical database (local Q-bus systems only)

The databases that are not listed as ``local only'' can be accessed from 
any vendor's MAP Version 2.1 conformant node in the MAP network.  The ``local 
only'' databases are added functionality which provides additional data 
for monitoring DIGITAL's nodes on the MAP network.

^ Event Logging - Refer to the VAX DEC/MAP Network Manager's Guide for the 
  MAP event types and messages that DIGITAL has implemented and also the 
  additional event logging that DIGITAL has added to enhance it's 
  MAP implementation.

^ Loopback Testing and System Verification DEC/MAP provides a test for 
  looping data between two DEC/MAP nodes at the Transport Layer.  Other 
  loopbacks that are available which verifies operability on the local 
  host, using Network Manager commands are:

  -  VERIFY - Enables users to loop data through the Transport.

  -  SHOW COUNTER - Exercises software in Application, Session, and 
     Transport Layers on local and remote nodes.

^ Local Directory Cache Maintenance

^ Event Log File Interpreter - Translates binary code in the event log 
  files into ASCII and organizes the information for easy reading.

DEC/MAP Application Layer 

The DEC/MAP Application Layer provides the user interface to the
communication services provided by the MAP network.  It consists of
File Transfer, Access, and  Management (FTAM), Common Application
Service Elements (CASE), Manufacturing Messaging Format Standard (MMFS), 
and Directory Services/Client Services Agent (CSA).

DEC/MAP FTAM

DEC/MAP FTAM procedures allow local and remote VMS applications to
establish a Virtual Circuit between their respective file stores.  It
supports file Copy, Create, Open, Close, Delete and file Data Transfer
operations.  File Transfers can be either text format, containing a
maximum of 255 ASCII text characters delineated by <CR><LF> control
characters or unstructured binary data.

DEC/MAP CASE 

DEC/MAP CASE provides for Program-to-Program, or peer-to-peer communications 
between cooperating processes running in MAP network systems. DEC/MAP 
CASE consists of two logically distinct parts, the DEC/MAP CASE Application 
Interface and the DEC/MAP CASE Provider.  The Application Interface is a 
VMS procedure for:

^ Establishing a connection or association with a peer application program

^ Accepting or rejecting an association request from a peer application 
  program

^ Exchanging data with peer application program

^ Terminating or Aborting an association

The DEC/MAP CASE Provider utilizes the services of Session layer and
other lower layers and exchanges Application Protocol Data Units
(ADPUs) with CASE peers.  In addition, the DEC/MAP CASE Provider uses
services provided by the DEC/MAP Client Services Agent.  Both
synchronous and asynchronous versions of the DEC/MAP CASE interface
are supported.

DEC/MAP MMFS

MAP Architecture provides communications between factory devices in a
MAP network using MMFS defined messages, which may be transmitted by
using the facilities of CASE.  MMFS defines message vocabularies and
specific message formats for communication among three types of factory
devices; Programmable Controllers, Numeric Controllers and Robots.

Message vocabularies and formats defined for each type of device are
grouped into subsets called conformance classes.  MAP specifies four
conformance classes, in which, only Class 0 is defined.  VAX DEC/MAP
MMFS Encoder/Decoder provides for encoding and decoding conformance
Class 0 messages only, and consists of two standard VMS procedures:

^ The encoding procedure formats VMS application messages in  a
  MMFS envelope which may by transmitted  by utilizing the facilities 
  of DEC/MAP CASE.

^ The decoding procedure removes the MMFS envelope and passes the message 
  to the VMS Application.

Conformance testing for MAP Version 2.1 MMFS does not exist, and each vendor
may implement a different subset of MMFS functionality.  It is
therefore advisable that customers contact their local Software
Services Personnel to assist them with their implementation.

Directory Services/CSA 

VAX DEC/MAP includes a directory services Client Services Agent (CSA)
which provides a primitive name to address resolution. Address
resolution is accomplished by a local cache file lookup performed by
the CSA. CSA communication with a remote Directory Services Agent (DSA) 
is not supported in this version of DEC/MAP.

The local cache may be modified using the MAP Control Program (MAPCP/MAPQNACP).
The local cache contains the User Element (UE) Name, Communication Services 
(CS), and associated addresses, or Service Access Points (SAPs) needed 
to associate with an Application Entity (part of an Application Program).  
Entries must be defined  for all local applications wishing to receive 
inbound associations and any remote applications that local applications 
will initiate an association with.

Presentation 

The Presentation layer is not currently defined in the MAP Version 2.1
Specification and is therefore a null layer.  The purpose of this
layer will be to negotiate contexts and formats for the exchanging  of
data, i.e., it will transform data from the local system representation 
into the agreed upon MAP context and format for the interchange of data 
on another vendors system.

Session 

Layer 5 implements the ISO Session Standard and is limited to the
Kernel and Full-Duplex functional units.  Session supports an orderly
dialog between application programs, using full-duplex functionality,
check-pointing and resynchronizing capabilities.  DEC/MAP CASE and
FTAM make use of DEC/MAP Session services.  DEC/MAP does not have an
exposed Session-level programming interface.

Transport 

The DEC/MAP Transport Protocol provides reliable end-to-end transfer
of data between cooperating user programs residing in separate host
computers.

The TRANSPORT layer provides a number of internal functions.  A sample
of these functions include:

^ Initiate and release transport connections.

^ Mapping between transport addresses and network addresses.

^ Multiplexing between transport connections and network connections.

^ End-to-End flow control and data sequencing.

  -  Transport Protocol Data Unit (TPDU) w/without Checksum

  -  Expedited Data Transfer

For the Q-bus MicroVAX, this protocol is executed in the requisite
hardware thereby off-loading the host CPU.

Network 

The function of this layer is to route and relay packets between MAP
endnode systems across an arbitrary set of wide area and subnetworks.
It provides the connectionless-mode network service.  DEC/MAP utilizes
the Internet Protocol.

Some Internet services are as follows:

^ Header Format Analysis

^ Route PDU Function

^ PDU Lifetime Control

^ Error Reporting

^ PDU Header Error Detection

An inactive or ``null'' network layer is a requirement of VAX DEC/MAP.
When both the sending and receiving system reside on the same Local
Area Network, the user-written application  program can address the
remote system using its LAN address, causing the Transport Service to
generate and recognize PDU's employing the Inactive or ``null'' Network
Layer.  When communicating across subnetwork boundaries, users of the
Transport Service can address the remote system using an Internet
address, causing the Transport Service to generate and recognize PDUs
using the Internet Protocol.  This is defined in the Header Format
Analysis.

The Network Layer has no exposed programmable interfaces.

For the Q-bus MicroVAX, this protocol is executed in the requisite
hardware thereby off-loading the host CPU.

Data Link And Physical Layer

For the UNIBUS and BI-BUS VAX, implementation of these layers is
accomplished using the Concord Communications, Inc. Token/Net (TM)
Interface Module (TIM). The TIM subsystem provides both the IEEE
802 Logical Link Control (802.2 Class 1) and Token Passing Media Access
Control sublayers of the Data Link Layer, and also the Physical Layer.

For the Q-bus MicroVAX, implementation of these layers is provided  by
the requisite hardware supplied by DIGITAL. 

            Specifications and Standards Used for DEC/MAP

                               TABLE 1

DEC/MAP Component       Specifications and Standards            OSI Layer
-----------------       ----------------------------            ---------

Network Management      Network Management Agent(NMA) only
                        defined in the MAP V2.1 Spec.
                        Network Manager
Application                                                     Application
                        
NBS Phase I FTAM        Based on ISO FTAM DP2

MAP CASE V2.1           ISO based and defined in Service
                        Definition and Protocol Spec. July 1985,
                        produced at General Motors Tech. Center

MAP V2.1 MMFS           Conformance class 0
                
Directory Service/CSA   MAP V2.1
                        
Presentation            Undefined in MAP V2.1,                  Presentation
                        therefore NULL layer    
                                 
Session                 ISO Session Standard                    Session
                        (ISO/IS 8326, 8327)
                        only Kernel and full-duplex is 
                        implemented as required in MAP V2.1
                        
Transport               ISO Transport, Class 4                  Transport
                        Service as specified
                        in ISO/IS 8072, ISO/IS 8073.

Network                 ISO Internet (ISO/DIS 8473)             Internet
                                
Data Link               IEEE 802.2 Class 1, Logic Link Control  Data Link
                        IEEE 802.4 Token Bus, Media Access 
                        Control
                                
Physical                IEEE 802.4 Broadband                    Physical
                                 
INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this product.  
DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase DIGITAL's Installation 
Services. These services provide for installation of the software product 
by an experienced DIGITAL Software Specialist.

Customer Responsibilities 

Before installation of the software, the customer must:

^ Previously have installed all prerequisite software

^ Obtain, install and demonstrate as operational any modems, and other 
  equipment, and facilites necessary to interface to DIGITAL's communication 
  equipment.

^ Certify MAP channel

^ Designate and provide access to a DEC/MAP host that has previously been 
  installed by DIGITAL on this certified channel for subsequent verification 
  of installation and connectivity in a multi-node network.

Delays caused by any failure to meet these  responsibilities  will  be
charged at the then prevailing rate for time and materials.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX or MicroVAX configuration as specified in the System Support
Addendum (SSA 27.66.01-x).

OPTIONAL HARDWARE 

None

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
  versions of prerequisite software (SSA 27.66.01-x).

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

None

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VFZA*-**
Software Media: QA-VFZA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VFZAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VFZA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

DIGITAL has produced this product as a MAP Version 2.1 variant and
warrants the functionality and proper operation with other DIGITAL 
VAX DEC/MAP systems.  DIGITAL warrants this product to conform to
these Protocol and Service Specifications, as described above in the
section, ``Product Description''. DIGITAL cannot assume responsibility
for interworking problems due to:

^ Other vendors' nonconformance to the above listed Specifications 
  and Standards

^ Ambiguities and flaws in the protocol design appearing in the
  above listed Specifications and Standards

^ Failure in Conformance Testing to detect incompatibilities

Assistance requested of DIGITAL for problems resulting from any of the
above  listed  limitations will result in all associated service calls
being billed at the prevailing per call rates.

Warranty for this software product is provided  by  DIGITAL  with  the
purchase  of a license for the product as defined in the Software
Warranty Addendum.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

License for this software is included with purchase of the hardware.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL
office.

License Management Facility 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.  
License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or 
the VMS Operating System documentation set.  For more information on 
DIGITAL's licensing policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

June 1988
BH-JC15B-TE
