PRODUCT NAME: MUXserver 100 Remote Term. Server, Version 2.2                 
              For VMS and MicroVMS Load Hosts        SPD 28.45.01

DESCRIPTION

The MUXserver 100 Remote Terminal Server is a statistical multiplexer
server for connecting remote terminals to Ethernet Local Area Networks.
The MUXserver 100 provides a convenient method to logically connect up
to sixteen remotely located DIGITAL asynchronous terminals via wide area
telecommunications services to one or more service nodes (hosts) on an
Ethernet.  

The MUXserver 100 allows for VMS host initiated connections to       
asynchronous printers.  A special print symbiont on VMS service nodes   
can initiate connections to asynchronous printers connected to DECmux IIs
located at remote sites.  This allows certain asynchronous printers
to be distributed throughout the LAN/WAN network, and accessed
transparently by service node users.  Incoming host-initiated connect
requests are queued in a First-in-First-Out (FIFO) priority scheme. 

The MUXserver 100 implements the Local Area Transport (LAT) protocol for
communication with service nodes that implement this protocol on the
same Ethernet.  Remote terminal data streams are concentrated at a
DECmux II statistical multiplexer device and connected back to the
LAN-site MUXserver 100 on a single leased phone line using an HDLC
based, synchronous data transmission, statistical multiplexer protocol.
Response time at the remote terminal is a function of the Ethernet
loading, the LAT  protocol performance, the synchronous link speed and
the I/O loading requirements of the remote terminals.

Software that runs on the MUXserver 100 is downline loaded over the
Ethernet network from a Phase IV DECnet load host.

Terminal access using the MUXserver 100 does not require DECnet running
in the same service node.  LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism to
transport terminal messages.  

Features 

^ Login load balancing

^ Multiple terminal sessions
           
^ Automatic login failover

^ Remote printer support 

Terminal Connection Management

Through the use of a simple terminal command, users can  

^ Establish a logical connection,called a sesseion, to
  any local service node that implements the LAT protocol
  on the same Ethernet. 

^ Connect to the same or a different service node on the Ethernet.   

^ Several servers can be used to connect many terminals to one or more 
  service nodes.

A service node can have one or more services that are offered to MUXserver 
100 users.  Services and nodes are identified by name.  Users always connect 
to services, not to nodes, although often one of the service names will be 
the node name.  

In a VAXcluster environment, each VAXcluster on the Ethernet is seen as 
a collection of service nodes offering a common service.

Load Balancing

When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the
connection is determined by load balancing.  Load balancing is a process
the server uses when more than one node offers the same service.
Service nodes do not have to be configured as a VAXcluster in order for
load balancing to be used.  Service nodes with the same names may be
running different operating systems.  Using the load balancing process,
the server connects to the node with the highest rating for the service
desired. This rating is based on the current loading, memory available,
CPU class, and the number of users on the nodes that offer the service.
        
Multiple Sessions

^ Allows each user to establish and maintain up to six sessions to one or 
  more service nodes.

^ Up to a maximum of 28 per MUXserver 100 depending on the number of 
  nodes in the server database.

^ Only one session can be active at a time.

^ Through simple switching commands, the user can access the different 
  sessions without repeating a login dialog each time.  Some operating 
  systems may impose limits on the number of LAT sessions such a host 
  will support.

Local Mode and Service Mode

For the most part, the environment provided by the MUXserver 100 is
identical to that the user would experience if attached through
stand-alone multiplexers to the service node.  When operating in this
mode, the user is said to be in Service Mode.  Occasionally, such as
during connection establishment, the user interacts directly with the
MUXserver 100.  When operating in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

Local Mode - The terminal input is interpreted directly by the
MUXserver 100 as commands to be performed by the server. 

^ Two different levels of operation:  nonprivileged and privileged.

^ Nonprivileged commands allow the terminal users to control 
  their service sessions, set terminal characteristics, and show server 
  information.
          
^ Privileged mode is provided for the Server Manager to control the 
  environment of the server and of the terminal users. Access to this 
  mode is password protected.

^ The Terminal Server Manager environment is a logical extension of the 
  user environment.  

^ The Server Manager is treated as a server user with a privileged status. 

^ The Server Manager sets a terminal to this status using a command which 
  requires a password. This privileged status allows the Server Manager to 
  enter commands not normally available to server users. These commands
  set server characteristics,  provide control over server port usage, and 
  provide the ability to  control  the user's access to the server and 
  network services.

  The MUXserver 100 also has a dedicated supervisory port that 
  allows the Server Manager to control the environment of the server and 
  of the terminal users.  Access to this mode is password protected.

Service Mode - The terminal input is passed directly to the connected
service node with several exceptions.  One exception, called the Local
Switch Character, allows the user to enter Local Mode from Service Mode.

^ The <BREAK> key may also be used for this function.  

Other exceptions, called the Forward and Backward Switch Characters, allow  
the user to switch between sessions without the need to enter Local 
Mode.  The Switch Characters are disabled by default but may be enabled by 
command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally but flow 
control using these characters can be disabled.

Autoconnection

^ Automatically connects a user terminal to a service node when connection 
  failures occur or upon user login to the server.  

^ A dedicated or preferred service can be specified for each terminal user.

Dedicated Service 

^ The MUXserver 100 will attempt to connect to that service when a character 
  is typed on the terminal keyboard or when an existing connection fails.

^ Only one session is available.   

^ No Local Mode commands or messages are available to the terminal user. 

^ Ports with dedicated service can be automatically logged out 
  of the server when the user logs out of the service node.

Preferred Service 

^ The MUXserver 100 will attempt to connect to that service as with the 
  dedicated service mode of operation.
  
^ The terminal user can also enter Local Mode and establish other sessions.

Automatic Session Failover

If a service is available on two or more service nodes, and a connection
to a service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user to
another service node offering the same service.  Autoconnection must be
enabled for this feature to work.  The user does not have to be already
connected to that service node.  Furthermore, the user's context at the
time of failure is not automatically restored and login to the new
service is required.

Groups

Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one or
more groups. These groups are identified by numbers called group codes. 
Group codes allow an easy means of subdividing the network into what appears 
to be many smaller networks.  A terminal user is only aware of the services 
that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).

^ A privileged user can change the group(s) in which a terminal is a member.
   
^ Group codes provide a restrictive view of the network.

This restricted view is mainly for user convenience and, although it also
provides a form of security, it is not intended to be the primary form
of access authorization or system security for a node.

Security

MUXserver 100 security includes:

^ The ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from other users.  

^ Optional login protection and nonprivileged Local Mode of operation as 
  a default.

Terminal Locking

A user may lock the terminal using a lock  password.  This allows the
user to leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of security
violations.  When a terminal is locked, all input from the  terminal is
ignored until the lock password is re-entered.

Password

Login passwords can be enabled on a per-line basis by the privileged
user.  If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to
access server functions.  If a dedicated service is specified, login 
protection is not available.

Terminal users normally have access to the  non-privileged Local  Mode.   
In this mode, users may issue commands that affect their own terminal 
environment.  The server itself has a privileged mode for Server Manager's 
use. The mode is password protected.

On-line HELP Facility

A limited on-line HELP facility is available to remind users of command
syntax. It is not intended as a replacement for the documentation set.

Directory Service

Any MUXserver 100 user can obtain a directory of services available to
that user with a SHOW SERVICES command.  Services for which the user is
not authorized will not be displayed.

Port Parameter Configuration

Parameters governing the operation of an individual terminal can be
modified and displayed  by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively
from their terminal.  In the privileged mode, a Server Manager can
modify parameters for other users' ports or for the server as a whole,
and can also specify the composite, synchronous link parameters.

Permanent characteristics are maintained in MUXserver 100  memory, even
when  the  power is disconnected.  Permanent characteristics are
maintained for server-wide parameters as well as per-terminal
parameters.  Permanent characteristics can be reset to factory defaults
by pressing the software reset button on the MUXserver 100 hardware unit
while  plugging in the power cord.  Terminal parameters that can be set
and displayed include:  speed, character size, group codes, parity, and
terminal type.

Port Access Characteristics

A port on a MUXserver 100, Version 2.2 may be set up in different ways     
depending on the device attached to the port and its intended use.
The MUXserver 100, supports RS-232-C asynchronous devices operating at
speeds up to 9.6K bps (19.2K bps for interactive terminals), and which
support XON/XOFF flow control.

Port access is the characteristic which determines how a port may access
or be accessed by interactive users and service nodes.

1.  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals.  This allows
    the device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the
    port to CONNECT to LAT services.

2.  Access Remote - Designed for application driven devices such as
    asynchronous printers which are allocated by a service node
    process by request.  This allows the implementation of certain
    shared, remote printers by multiple service nodes.

3.  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal computers 
    or printers with keyboards) which require both Local and Remote access.

4.  Access None - Designed to allow the Server Manager to disable the use 
    of a port.

Printers

With printer support capabilities, the setup procedure of remote
printers needs to be done once and is automatically reconfigured on
system startup.  The particular server port must be configured for
remote access and set up to match the characteristics of the printer.

The system startup command file must be modified to call the two command
files provided with the service node software.  Finally, the command
files themselves must be customized to reflect the environment of their
node.  The server can optionally queue remote connects if these connects
cannot be satisfied immediately.  This queue management can  be  enabled
for the server by the server manager.  Note that this is a connection
queue only.

Network Configuration

The MUXserver 100 is connected to Ethernet using a DELNI, DECOM, DESTA, or
H4000 Transceiver and a transceiver cable.  Two synchronous, composite,       
data link connections are supported, each of which can connect to
a remote, eight line DECmux II concentrator.  Two DECmux II concentrators
can also be connected together using the route-through mode of
operation, in which case only a single MUXserver 100 composite link
connection can be utilized. 

Four LAN/WAN configurations are supported with the default, factory-set,
MUXserver 100 parameters.  These default configurations are:

Default MUXserver Network Configurations

^ Eight users (one DECmux) at ONE Remote Site

^ Sixteen users (two DECmuxes) at ONE Remote Site

^ Sixteen users, with eight users (one DECmux) at each 
  of TWO Remote Sites. Two composite links are run from 
  the MUXserver.

^ Sixteen users, with eight users (one DECmux) at each 
  of TWO Remote Sites. Only ONE composite link is run 
  from the MUXserver to the closest Remote Site. The 
  link is then ``Routed-through'' on a second composite 
  link from the first DECmux to the DECmux at the 
  farther Remote Site.
                                        
The composite link is HDLC based with remote data link transfer rates of
2400, 4800, 9600, or 19.2K bps.  The rate is selectable by the server
manager in privileged mode.

Both RS-232-C/CCITT V.24 modem connections or RS-422-A long line (up to
one kilometer) are supported  on the two MUXserver 100 composite link
interfaces.  Five optional RS-422-A configurations are supported.

Terminal Operation

The MUXserver 100 supports the simultaneous operation of up to sixteen
terminals connected over two DECmux II modules at speeds from 75 bps to
19.2K bps.  The DECmux II modules also support:

^  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

^  Block Mode transfers

^  Automatic line speed detection

^  DIGITAL Personal Computer file transfer

^  XON/XOFF handling

^  Data Transparency mode

^  Ability to pass BREAK character and/or error notification

Terminals Supported

The MUXserver 100 software supports the following DIGITAL terminal
devices that have keyboards:

^  LA12, LA34, LA35, LA36, LA38

^  VT52, VT100, VT101, VT102, VT125, VT131

^  VT220, VT240, VT241

^  VT320, VT330, VT340*                                                  

* The MUXserver 100 does not support the multi-sesson capability of the       
  VT340.                                                                        

The asynchronous device ports support DIGITAL's terminals and printers, but
NOT modems.  Each device must meet the following DECmux II device
interface specifications: 

1.  Each port is CCITT V.24/EIA RS-232-C and is terminated  with  a
    DB25-P connector.

2.  Data format is asynchronous start/stop,  having  7  or  8  data
    bits; 1 or 2 stop bits (1.5 stop bits for 5 data bits).

3.  Protocol is full duplex with optional local echo, XON/XOFF flow
    control.

4.  Speed is selectable from one of the following:  75, 110, 134.5,
    150, 300, 600, 1200, 1800, 2000, 2400, 4800, 9600, or 19200;
    split speeds of 1200/75, 75/1200, 2400/150, 150/2400.

5.  A DECmux II port logically connected to the MUXserver 100 will
    also autobaud at speeds 110, 134.5, 150, 300, 600, 1200, 2400,
    4800, 9600, and 19,200 if the corresponding MUXserver 100 port
    set to AUTOBAUD ENABLED.

The MUXserver 100 software also supports the following DIGITAL Personal
Computers (PCs) in both terminal emulation mode and file transfer mode.

^  The Professional 325, 350, 380

^  The Rainbow 100A, 100B, 100+, 190

^  DECmate II

^  DECmate III

^  VAXmate (PC500)                                                       

NOTE:  This product is not warranted to support non-DIGITAL 
       terminal devices and Personal Computers. However, 
       those supporting VT100-like characteristics may operate 
       with this product.

Printers Supported

The MUXserver 100 software supports the following DIGITAL asynchronous
printers when accessed from VMS. 

^  LA50, LA100, LA120, LA210

^  LQP02, LQP03

^  LN01S, LN03S

^  LG01, LG02

^  LCG01                                                                 

^  LJ250                                                                 

Modems Supported

None, on terminal channels

Server Management

Several facilities exist for managing and trouble-shooting MUXserver
operation.  A Server Manager connected in privileged mode via the
supervisory port can establish the composite link parameters, set up
server identification information, change port parameters, or fine tune
the operating characteristics of the server.  Trouble-shooting
facilities include diagnostic tests and on-line statistics.

A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by
looping messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware
interface at the server.  Connections to remote DECmux II modules can
also be made to test the composite link integrity.  To diagnose terminal
problems, users can execute a command to transmit test data to their
terminal, or the Server Manager can send test data to any terminal.

The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters.  These
include the following:  Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol
statistics and composite link statistics.   The Ethernet data can be
displayed and zeroed by a privileged terminal user.  Server parameters
that can be modified and displayed include the server identification,
circuit timer, session limits, and login limits.
                                               
Remote Server Management

The MUXserver 100 implements the console carrier feature which enables
access to the MUXserver 100 Local Mode from a Phase IV DECnet host on
the same LAN.  A restricted set of Local Mode functions are available to
a console carrier user.  This capability provides centralized server
management and remote server diagnosis.

Communications Supported on the MUXserver 100

MUXserver 100 software is designed to run on MUXserver hardware
exclusively.  This hardware includes an Ethernet interface for
connection to an Ethernet transceiver cable, two composite link ports,
and a single supervisory terminal port.

Ethernet-connection alternatives:

^  H4000          Baseband Ethernet Transceiver                          

^  DESTA          ThinWire Ethernet Station Adapter                      

^  DECOM          Broadband Ethernet Transceiver                         

^  DELNI          Ethernet Local Area Interconnect                       

Composite Link-connection alternatives include the following with 1200,
2400, 4800, 9600, 19200  and 38400 being the only available transfer
rates on the interfaces:

^ Leased Line Modem       Non-dialup synchronous, full-duplex via BC22F 
                          RS232 cable (non-satellite links). Bell 
                          compatibility: 202 FDX, 201B, 208B, 209. 
                          CCITT compatibility: V.23, V.26, V.27bis, 
                          V.29. (up to the highest speed supported
                          by the modem used)

^ Direct RS-422-A Cable   Customer-supplied RS-422-A cable up to 1 
                          kilometer or 3280 feet in length.

^ Digital Transmission    Full duplex, Synchronous RS232 interface 
                          (non-switched)

Supervisory Terminal port can accept directly connected asynchronous
terminals with the following Comm. characteristics:

1.  Asynchronous RS-232-C start/stop transmission, having eight data
    bits, 1 stop bit, no parity.

2.  Full duplex with XON/XOFF flow control.

3.  Speeds selectable from one of the following: 300, 600, 1200,
    2400, 4800, 9600 baud, or AUTOBAUD.

4.  Physical connections includes data lines only on a DB25-P
    connector.

At least one dedicated, hardcopy, Supervisory Terminal is recommended
per MUXserver 100 site for use in diagnostic trouble-shooting,
re-configuration, or performance monitoring.

Devices Supported on the DECmux II

The DECmux II has four types of interfaces to which external equipment
can be connected:

1.  Two RS-232-C Modem Composite Link Ports

2.  Two RS-422-A Composite Link Ports

3.  A single Supervisory Terminal Port

4.  Eight Asynchronous RS-232-C Device Ports

The RS-232-C Composite Link-connection alternatives include the 
following with 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, and 19200 bps being the only
available transfer rates on the interfaces:

^ Leased Line Modem       Non-dialup synchronous, full-duplex via BC22F 
                          RS232 cable (non-satellite links). Bell 
                          compatibility: 202 FDX, 201B, 208B, 209. 
                          CCITT compatibility: V.23, V.26, V.27bis, 
                          V.29. (up to the highest speed supported
                          by the modem used)

^ Digital Transmission    Full duplex, Synchronous RS232 interface 
                          (non-switched)

The only RS-422-A Composite Link-connection alternative is direct wire
connection (customer-supplied cable) with 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, 19200
and 38400 bps being the only available transfer rates.

Supervisory Terminal port can accept directly connected asynchronous
terminals with the following communication characteristics:

^   Asynchronous RS-232-C start/stop, having 8 data bits, 1 stop
    bit, no parity.

^   Full duplex with XON/XOFF flow control.

^   Speeds selectable from one of the following: 300, 600, 1200,
    2400, 4800, 9600 baud, or AUTOBAUD.

^   Physical connections include data lines only on a DB25-P
    connector.

MUXserver 100 Operation

The MUXserver 100 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary maintenance
operation protocols for downline loading MUXserver 100 software from a
Phase IV DECnet load host over the Ethernet into MUXserver memory.   All
self-test diagnostics are in MUXserver ROM, so downline loading is not a
precondition for MUXserver self-test.  In the event of a bugcheck caused
by a fatal error, the unit will normally attempt to upline dump server
memory to a DECnet Phase IV host.  Following this, the unit will
automatically initialize itself and invoke a downline load.

Restrictions on MUXserver 100 Usage

While terminal connections using the MUXserver 100 have been designed to
simulate direct terminal connections as much as possible, a few
differences necessarily exist because of the nature of the product.

Under most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by terminal
users or service node application programs.  However, applications which
are directly dependent on the following functions may not operate as
with a direct connection:

1.  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal
    speed, character size and parity by manipulating system data
    structures

2.  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time
    (typically less than 200 ms) to operate

3.  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the
    service node

4.  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed
    device names

5.  Applications that directly receive and send BREAK signals
    and/or XON/XOFF flow control characters (since these characters
    are normally intercepted and processed locally by the MUXserver
    100 and DECmux II).

6.  Applications that require dial-up modems connected to the
    DECmux II. (This is because unauthorized connection could
    occur if a call is disconnected and the terminal session is NOT
    logged out first).

7.  Applications that utilize asynchronous DECnet software or
    protocols are not supported on the MUXserver 100.

INSTALLATION    

This software product can be installed by the customer using the
step-by-step documentation available for this product.  Optionally, you
can purchase DIGITAL Installation Services which provide for the
installation of the software product by an experienced DIGITAL Software
Specialist.

The installation service consists of:

^  Installation of MUXserver 100 software on up to two DECnet load
   hosts.

^  Configuration of up to two MUXserver 100 units on each load
   host, along with configuration of up to two DECmux II units for
   each MUXserver.

^  Configuration of LAT service node software (i.e. LTDRIVER) on
   up to two service nodes

^  Installation verification and checkout.

^  Customer orientation demo.

Customer Responsibilities

Before installation of the software, the customer must:

Previously have installed all requisite hardware including terminals.

Obtain, install, and demonstrate as operational other communications
equipment and facilities necessary to interface to and transfer 
composite link data between the MUXserver 100 and DECmux(es).

Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed by
DIGITAL and the customer, all hardware, communication facilities, and
terminals that are to be used during the installation.

For multi-node networks, designate one Ethernet host to verify
installation/connectivity.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX or MicroVAX configuration as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 28.45.01-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS or MicroVMS Operating System 

DECnet-VAX

Host initiated connect capability and shared printer support are only
available on VMS service nodes running LATplus/VMS.  LATplus/VMS, Version 
1.0 or greater is included with the MUXserver 100, distribution and 
documentation option.  Prior versions of VMS, without LATplus are also 
supported, but will NOT exhibit the features that require LATplus.

A DECnet Load Host is required. 

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE *

None

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
  versions of Prerequisite/Optional Software (SSA 28.45.01-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION
 
Software Licenses: QL-VE4A*-**
Software Media: QA-VE4A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VE4AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VE4A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on licenses, 
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING     

The MUXserver 100 software license applies to the MUXserver 100 hardware
on which the MUXserver software runs, NOT to the host node CPUs which
downline load the software image, or service node CPUs in the network.

You will need a separate license for each MUXserver 100 CPU on which you
will be using the software product (except as otherwise specified by
DIGITAL). Then, Materials and Service Options are selected to utilize 
the product effectively.  

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software
Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES 

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.


May 1988
AE-JS04B-TE
