PRODUCT NAME:  VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.1                SPD 27.58.02

DESCRIPTION
  
VAX RMS Journaling is a tool which maintains the data integrity of RMS files
in the face of a number of failure scenarios.  It helps to protect RMS file
data from becoming lost or inconsistent. 

VAX RMS Journaling provides three different types of journaling.
  
^  After-image journaling provides the ability to re-do a series of 
   modifications to a data file.  This type of journaling allows a file to be 
   recovered in the event it is lost or corrupted, e.g. if the file is 
   inadvertently deleted or the disk is lost due to a disk head crash. Such 
   a recovery restores the contents of the file from the point of the latest 
   BACKUP copy of that file.
  
^  Before-image journaling provides the ability to un-do a series of 
   modifications to a data file.  This type of journaling allows a file to be 
   returned a previous known state.  This is useful in the event that a file 
   is updated with bad or erroneous data via, for example, a noisy data 
   communications line or operator error.
  
^  Recovery unit journaling provides transaction integrity. A ``transaction''
   is a series of RMS record operations on one or more files that are viewed 
   as an atomic operation, i.e. either all of the operations are completed, 
   or none are.
  
Journaling is applied on a file-by-file basis.  A file may be marked for
after-image, before-image, or recovery unit journaling, or any combination
thereof.  Within a given application, any combination of journaling types may
be used. 
  
VAX RMS Journaling stores the information necessary for data recovery in
files hereafter referred to as ``journal files''.  Multiple files may journal
to the same journal file. 
  
Supported File Organizations
  
All RMS file organizations are supported by VAX RMS Journaling. Any
sequential, relative, or Prolog 3 indexed file may be journaled.  The
following restrictions apply: 
  
^  Prolog 1 and Prolog 2 indexed files are not supported by VAX RMS Journaling
  
^  Sequential files are limited to a record size of 32667 bytes.

^  Files marked for recovery unit journaling may not be written with the DCL 
   WRITE command.

^  Stream files cannot be modified in shared mode in a recovery unit.

^  Sequential files having variable-length records with fixed-length control
   area may not be updated when journaled
  
Every file which is to be journaled must reside on FILES-11 ODS-2 disks. All
journal files must also reside on a FILES-11 ODS-2 disk.  It is recommended
that journal files which are used for after-image journaling reside on a
different disk than the files which are being journaled to those journal
files.  Journaling across a network (via DECnet) or to a tape device is not
supported. 
  
Marking Files for Journaling
  
VAX RMS Journaling is enabled on a file by file basis.  After-image,
before-image, and recovery unit journaling are all enabled through qualifiers
to the DCL ``SET FILE'' command.  Any combination of qualifiers may be used
with a particular SET FILE command or series of SET FILE commands.  Files are
unmarked for journaling by, a similar SET FILE command, preceding the
appropriate qualifier with ``NO''. 
  
The most recent SET FILE command for a given file overrides all previous SET
FILE commands for that file. 
  
Successful marking of an RMS file for journaling requires exclusive access to
the file specified in the SET FILE command.  Exclusive access means the RMS
file being marked for journaling must be closed, (i.e. application programs
accessing that file must be shut down until the file is successfully marked
for journaling). 
  
No application program changes are required for long-term (i.e. after-image
or before-image) journaling.  Once a file has been marked for such
journaling, journal information will be written to the journal file every
time that the file is modified.  (The file must have been opened subsequent
to the issuance of the SET FILE command which marked the file for VAX RMS
Journaling.)  All modifications to the file are journaled until the file is
unmarked for journaling. 
  
Application program modification is required for recovery unit journaling. At
a minimum, the program must specify the start and the end of a recovery unit
using the recovery unit system services.  In order to modify a file marked
for recovery unit journaling, the RMS record operations must be performed
within a recovery unit. 

Journal File Maintenance
  
After-image and before-image journal files require periodic maintenance.
Since journal files grow indefinitely, and must reside on a single volume
set, occasional re-marking of a file for journaling and all of the associated
operations is required.  This implies that applications accessing RMS data
files marked for after-image and or before-image journaling must periodically
be stopped for the duration of the journal file maintenance operations. 
  
Recovering Data - Long-Term Journaling
  
In the case of long-term journaling, data recovery is done via the RMS
Recovery Utility. Recovery is on a file by file basis, and must be explicitly
requested; it is not done automatically. The RMS Recovery Utility is invoked
at DCL level to either roll forward or roll back changes to the file.  The
Recovery Utility requires exclusive access to the file being recovered.
Changes may be rolled forward or rolled backward until a time specified by
the user. 
  
In order to roll forward a file (re-do changes), there must be a VMS BACKUP
copy of the file on disk.  The BACKUP copy must have been made after the file
was marked for after-image journaling. 
  
Recovering Data - Recovery Unit Journaling
  
No user intervention is required to rollback a recovery unit which is
incomplete.  (A recovery unit may be incomplete, for example, because of a
process or system failure before the recovery unit was successfully
completed.) The rollback of an incomplete transaction is initiated and
completed automatically. 
  
Interaction with Backup
  
In order to recover data using after-image journaling, a BACKUP copy of the
file must be available.  This copy must be made with BACKUP; a copy of the
file made with the COPY or CONVERT command cannot be used.  A BACKUP copy of
the file must be made after the initial issuance of the SET FILE/AI_JOURNAL
command, but before the file is opened for update. BACKUP requires exclusive
access to files being backed-up.  No user or application program may access
the file until BACKUP is finished. 
  
The use of BACKUP/RECORD is recommended. If the file is then rolled forward,
only the modifications which have been made since the most recent backup are
applied. 
  
If a backup copy of a file is rolled forward (with the RMS Recovery Utility)
you must re-mark the file for after-image journaling with the SET
FILE/AI_JOURNAL command in order to journal the file again.  A BACKUP copy of
that file must be made after it has again been marked for after-image
journaling. 
  
A BACKUP copy of the file must be re-marked for journaling if it is to be
used in place of the original file. 

Interaction with VAX Volume Shadowing
  
VAX Volume Shadowing may be used in conjunction with after-image journaling;
it is not, however, a complete replacement for after-image journaling.
After-image journaling will provide a means of recovering data in the
following scenarios which VAX Volume Shadowing does not address: 
  
^  Mistaken deletion of a file by a system user or operator
  
^  Corruption of the file system pointers
  
^  RMS file corruption due to a software bug or incomplete bucket writes to 
   an indexed file.
  
Failures Not Addressed by RMS Recovery Unit Journaling
  
RMS Recovery Unit Journaling does not provide recovery from the following
scenarios when a multi-block bucket write to an indexed file is in progress,
leaving a bucket in the indexed file in a corrupt state: 
  
^  Failure of the VAX host during a multi-block write operation (e.g. VMS 
   crash, halt, powerfailure, or system shutdown)
  
^  Permanent loss of path to the disk during a multi-block write operation 
   (e.g. there is a single HSC and the HSC goes down or a disk goes into 
   mount verification and times out)
  
^  Cancellation of a multi-block write in progress (e.g. the process is 
   deleted or cancellation of I/O via a system service call within the 
   application).  It should be noted that this scenario only occurs in disks  
   using DUDRIVER.  Other disk drivers ignore the cancellation of I/O and 
   are not affected by this.  DUDRIVER is the disk driver used for DSA disks 
   (RA and RD disks).

In such a case, after-image (AI) Journaling must be used to recover from
these errors.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
  
Refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
for hardware requirements and supported processors. 
  
OPTIONAL HARDWARE

None

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid and
licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions.  The HARDWARE
REQUIREMENTS sections of this product's Software Product Description and the
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) detail any
special hardware required by this product. 

* V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster 
  Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet and Mixed 
  Interconnect configurations.
  
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS 
  
VMS Operating System V5.1

VMS Tailoring

For VMS V5.1 systems, the following VMS class is required for full
functionality of this layered product: 

^  VMS Required Saveset

For more information on VMS classes and tailoring, refer to the VMS Operating
System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx). 

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE
  
None

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS
  
The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of this
product may be different from the minimum requirements of the current
version. 

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VDVA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VDVAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VDVA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses, 
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License
Management Utility Manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set. 

For more information on DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your
local local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY
 
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.



January 1989
AE-JG40C-TE


