
PRODUCT NAME:  DECrouter 2000, Version 1.0		  SPD 28.85.00

DESCRIPTION

Introduction

For routing purposes, Phase IV DECnet networks consist of a number of
linked areas.  Each area is not limited to a specific geographic
region, but is often localized (such as a LAN in a building). Here LAN
refers to any Local Area Network that conforms with the Ethernet, IEEE
802.3 or the ISO 8802/3 standards. 

Packet routing is handled by specified routing nodes, which may have
to do this task in addition to providing services to users. Routing
works on two levels: 

Level 1  Among nodes within an area (called intra-area routing)

Level 2  From one area to another (called inter-area routing)

The DECrouter 2000 is a dedicated routing system that can act as a
level 1 and/or level 2 router. The system routes information over one
LAN circuit and up to 4 synchronous DDCMP circuits.  This gives other
DECnet nodes on the LAN access to remote nodes, and also relieves them
of the routing overhead. 

An example application for the DECrouter 2000 might be as a level 2
router for a LAN whose nodes are in a single DECnet area, connected to
two remote nodes in the same DECnet area, and two other nodes in other
areas.  In this case it would act as both a level 1 and level 2 DECnet
router. 

System Overview

The system is a combination of hardware and software.  The hardware is
the DEC MicroServer communications server that runs the DECrouter 2000
software. 

Some major features of the complete system are:

^  Physical Characteristics

   -  A table top unit, which can also be rack or wall mounted

   -  Status display                                                      

   -  LAN and four synchronous ports 

^  Routing Capabilities

   -  Level 1 and/or level 2 Phase IV DECnet routing

   -  Ability to route messages between 63 areas, each of up to 1023
      nodes; these are maximum values permitted by the Digital Network    
      Architecture. Satisfactory operation in large networks requires     
      proper network planning. 

   -  Adaptive routing over the synchronous links and to/from the LAN

   -  Ability to communicate with remote Phase III nodes in the same  
      DECnet area.

   -  Path splitting, where there are two or more equal-cost paths 
      between the DECrouter 2000 and the destination DECnet node.  For       
      this feature, all the destination nodes on the network must     
      support out-of-order packet caching.

^  Synchronous Line Capabilities

   -  Data speeds of up to 256K bits per second (see Table 1)

   -  V.24 interchange circuits

   -  V.28 (RS232-D), RS232-C, V.36/V.11 (RS449/RS422), V.10 
      (RS449/RS423), V.35 electrical interfaces

   -  CCITT (1980) X.21 for leased line services only

   -  Full modem control on all synchronous lines

^  DDCMP Capabilities

   -  Communicates with all supported synchronous DIGITAL DDCMP products, 
      excluding the DMC11

   -  Ability to work on point-to-point or multipoint links. However, 
      on DDCMP multipoint links, the DECrouter 2000 can act only as a 
      tributary.

   -  Full- or half-duplex communications

^  Network and Configuration Management Capabilities

   -  Configuration using a utility on the load host                       

   -  Remote management from any suitable DECnet node using the DECnet
      Network Control Program 

   -  Remote problem diagnosis (for example, using the TRACE tool)

   -  Automatic attempt to dump and reload following a system failure

   -  Event logging to any Phase IV DECnet node 

   -  Dynamic reconfiguration while the system is running

Network and Configuration Management                                     

The network manager can create and modify the configuration databases
by using utilities that are part of the load host software. The
configuration database is loaded into the DECrouter 2000 during system
initialization. 

The manager controls the running system by using the DECnet Network
Control Program from any DECnet Phase IV node. For example, the
manager can use the utility from one of the systems on the LAN. 

The utility provides three basic functions:

^  Display statistics and error information for the DECrouter 2000 
   (for example, statistics on line usage or errors)

^  Control the DECrouter 2000 (for example, starting and stopping lines, 
   setting parameters, and loading the software)

^  Test the components of the network (for example, loop messages through   
   all or part of a communications path to isolate a defective component)

In addition, a separate utility available on VMS or MicroVMS load 
hosts, assists problem-solving by tracing information at various stages 
in its path through the DECrouter 2000.

Host Systems

The DECrouter 2000 has no file storage of its own, and so relies on
host systems to:

^  Load the software

^  Log events

^  Receive any memory dumps

The minimum requirement is for one host to load the DEC MicroServer.
Event-logging and dump reception facilities can be used at the
discretion of the customer. Only a DECnet Phase IV node on the same
LAN can be a load host or dump receiver. 

The DECrouter 2000 software can be installed on a number of load
hosts. This helps to protect against loss of service if a single load
host is unavailable, or unable to load the system for any other
reason. Each load host must be on the same LAN, but not necessarily in
the same DECnet area as the DECrouter 2000. 

Performance and Configuration

The DECrouter 2000 can be set up in a number of ways.  The number of
synchronous links supported on the system depends on the maximum line
speed in use. Table 1 shows the number of lines supported for each
combination of line speed and electrical interface type.

                            Table 1
               Number Of Synchronous Lines Supported 

                        Maximum Line Speed 
Interface                     (Kbps)
Type                     19.2    64    256

V.28/V.24 (RS232-C/D)     4      -      -
V.36/V.11 (RS422/RS449)   4      4      2
V.10 (RS423)              4      4      -
V.35                      4      4      2
X.21 leased line          4      4      2

The actual packet rate will be less than that indicated by the
aggregate synchronous line speed, and is determined by such factors
as: 

^  Type of traffic (routing updates or data packets) and data rates

^  The path of messages through the DECrouter 2000 system (LAN-to-LAN, 
   synchronous-to-LAN, or synchronous-to-synchronous)

^  Communications line characteristics

^  Frequency and type of errors on the synchronous links

^  Network topology
 
^  Protocol overhead

PREREQUISITE SUPPORT

A Network Profile and DECnet Customer Support Plan covering all
intended network nodes and their support may be required by your
DIGITAL office. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 28.85.00-x).

DEC MicroServer as specified in the System Support Addendum.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

For each VAX system acting as a load host or dump receiver:

VMS Operating System, MicroVMS Operating System or ULTRIX-32
Operating System 

DECnet-VAX or DECnet-ULTRIX (either end-node or full-function)

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

None

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
  versions of prerequisite software (SSA 28.85.00-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software License:  QL-VI8A*-**                                            
Software Media: QA-VI8AA-** for VMS and MicroVMS Operating Systems    
                QA-VI9AA-** for ULTRIX-32 Operating Systems               
Software Documentation: QA-VI8AA-GZ                                       
Software Product Services:  QT-VI8A*-**                                   
Software Product Services:  QT-V19A*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available
  licenses, services, and media refer to the appropriate price book. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

The DECrouter 2000 is warranted for use only with supported Phase III
and Phase IV DECnet products supplied by DIGITAL.  Any system
connected to one of the DECrouter 2000's synchronous links must run a
current version of a DECnet Phase III/IV product using any supported
synchronous interface, but excluding a DMC11 device. 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software
Warranty Addendum. 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

You will need a separate license for each DEC MicroServer unit on
which you will be using the software product (except as otherwise
specified by DIGITAL). 

The licensing provisions of DIGITAL's Standard Terms and Conditions 
provide in part that the software and any part thereof (but
excluding those parts specific to the load hosts) may be used only on
the single DEC MicroServer hardware unit on which the software is
operated, but may be copied, in whole or in part (with the proper
inclusion of DIGITAL's copyright notice and any proprietary notices on
the software) between multiple load hosts on the same LAN. 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL
office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available. For more information on 
these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office.


August 1988
BH-KP97A-TN
