PRODUCT NAME:  KMV1A MicroVAX Driver and X.25 Link        SPD 28.27.01
               Level Software, Version 2.0

DESCRIPTION

The KMV1A MicroVAX Driver and X.25 Link Level Software product consists
of two major components: a driver to control communication between a 
MicroVAX host and a KMV1A Programmable Communications Controller, and
KMV1A microcode and host-based software which allow the KMV1A Controller 
to either process the data link level of the X.25 communications protocol 
or to perform HDLC framing. These major components are described separately 
below.

Driver

The driver provides a mechanism for communication between a MicroVAX
host and the KMV1A Programmable Communications Controller. The driver
controls this communication by providing an interface between MicroVAX
application programs and microcode being executed in the KMV1A
Controller's microprocessor. The communication includes data transfer;
and the transfer of command, control, and status information to and from
the KMV1A Controller. The driver also provides the mechanism to load
microcode from the MicroVAX host into the KMV1A Controller, and to
initialize the microcode. 

The driver consists of three major components: the KMV1A driver, the
installation verification program, and a demonstration program. The
features of each of these components are described below in the
"Features" section. 

X.25 Link Level Software

The X.25 link level component of the software product provides an X.25
based communications capability. The X.25 link level component includes
microcode which is downline loaded into the memory of the KMV1A
Controller. The microcode is executed by the KMV1A Controller's
microprocessor to control and process data transmission between the
driver and the KMV1A Controller's communication line. The microcode can
be configured at the user's option to either execute the data link level
of the X.25 communications protocol or to provide an HDLC framing
capability only. 

The link level option provided by the microcode performs processing of
the data link level of the X.25 protocol in conformance with the 1980
CCITT X.25 Recommendation pertaining to Link Access Procedure (LAPB).
The functions provided through the link level processing include data
framing, frame header generation, error checking, and retransmission of
erroneous frames. 

The HDLC framing option provides a subset of the link level processing
capability. The framing is done in conformance with the ISO 3309 
Standard for HDLC frame generation and recognition. 

In addition to the KMV1A microcode, the X.25 link level component of the
product also includes a sample host program, tracing utility, and
installation verification program. These components facilitate the
installation and testing of the X.25 product component. They also facilitate 
the customer development and testing of MicroVAX host applications which 
communicate with the KMV1A Controller and X.25 microcode to form a complete 
communications application. 

Features

Driver

The driver provides the following features:

^  Loading of microcode into the KMV1A Controller

^  Initialization of KMV1A microcode

^  Capability to upline dump the memory contents of the KMV1A Controller 
   RAM to host memory

^  QIO based interface for communication between the MicroVAX host and 
   KMV1A Controller

^  Memory mapped control of host area for DMA data transfer to and from the 
   KMV1A Controller

^  Host error logging of detected KMV1A errors

Driver Demonstration Program

The driver host demonstration program is a compilable FORTRAN program
which provides an example of basic commands which would be used by
MicroVAX application programs to interface to the KMV1A Controller
through the KMV1A driver. The demonstration program loads and initializes 
test KMV1A microcode, and then performs several transmit and receive commands. 

The driver demonstration program is included in this software product for
instructional purposes only; it is meant to serve as an example of
effective use of the KMV1A driver. DIGITAL does not provide the demonstration 
program for use, as is, by customers in functional host communication 
applications. DIGITAL will not support such use of the demonstration program. 

Driver Installation Verification Program

The installation verification program associated with the driver
verifies that the driver has been installed properly. The procedure
performs basic driver functions and verifies that files are resident in
the correct locations. The installation verification program also verifies 
that the KMV1A Controller is functioning at a basic level by transmitting 
data to and from the KMV1A Controller. 

X.25 Link Level Software

Microcode Features

The microcode included in the X.25 link level component of the software
product is downline loaded into the memory of the KMV1A Controller by
the driver. When executed by the controller's microprocessor, the
microcode provides three major functions: communication with the host
via the driver, an option to execute the data link level of the X.25
protocol or to perform HDLC framing, and communication with the KMV1A
Controller's communication line. 

The microcode provides an interface to the driver to control communication 
between the KMV1A Controller and the host. This interface permits the 
exchange of control and status information between the host and controller. 
The microcode and driver also control DMA data transfers between controller 
memory and host memory. 

The X.25 link level protocol processing option is executed in conformance 
with the 1980 CCITT X.25 Recommendation pertaining to Link Access Procedure 
(LAPB). The protocol processing functions performed through the link level 
option include data framing, frame header generation, error checking, and 
retransmission of erroneous or unacknowledged frames. The KMV1A X.25 
microcode supports the user selection of the following system parameters 
defined by the 1980 CCITT Recommendation for the Link Access Procedure:

^  N1B - The maximum number of eight-bit bytes in an information
   frame may be set to 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, or 512 bytes

^  K - The maximum number of outstanding information frames may be
   set to an integer value between 1 and 7, inclusive

^  T1 - The period of time after which retransmission of a frame is 
   initiated may be set between 50 and 32767 milliseconds, inclusive

^  N2 - The maximum number of retransmissions of an information frame 
   before the link is reset and an error status is returned to the driver 
   may be set at an integer value between 1 and 100, inclusive

The HDLC framing option provides a subset of the protocol processing
functions performed by the link level option. The framing option
performs frame generation and recognition only, in conformance with the
ISO 3309 Standard pertaining to HDLC frame structure. The maximum number
of eight-bit bytes per information frame is user selectable up to a
maximum of 512 bytes with the HDLC framing option. 

The KMV1A microcode provides an interface to the KMV1A Controller's
communication line. The following line control features are provided: 

^  Selection of internal clock with one of the following line speeds:

   - 1.2 thousand bits per second (Kbps)
   - 2.4 Kbps
   - 4.8 Kbps
   - 9.6 Kbps
   - 19.2 Kbps

^  Option to select full modem control (no ring indicator)

^  Selection of internal loopback for testing and diagnostic purposes

Tracing Utility 

The tracing utility allows the user to record and display historical
information on data frames transmitted over KMV1A communication line(s).
The user has the option of performing a trace on any of the up to eight
KMV1A communication lines under the control of the X.25 link level
microcode. The tracing utility may only be enabled when the microcode
is configured for X.25 link level processing. 

When selected, the tracing utility creates a disk file containing header 
information from all transmitted and received frames. The tracing 
utility also provides a mechanism to format the trace information for 
display on a host terminal.

Sample Host X.25 Program

A MicroVAX host application must be developed by the customer to
communicate with the KMV1A Controller and form a complete communications
application. The X.25 link level component of the product includes a
sample host program which illustrates an effective host application interface 
to the KMV1A microcode through the KMV1A MicroVAX Driver. The sample program 
is provided in source form in the C language. The program provides an example 
of loading and intitializing the KMV1A microcode, and performs several data 
transmits and receives through the driver. 

The sample program is included in this software product for instructional 
purposes only; it is intended to provide a model for the user's development 
of host-based software. The sample program is not provided by DIGITAL to be 
included, as is, in user-developed application software. DIGITAL will not 
support the use of the sample program, or any part of the sample program, as 
part of a customer's application. 

Installation Verification Program

The installation verification program is automatically invoked during
kit installation. The program verifies that the X.25 link level component 
of the product has been correctly installed. 

Performance 

The KMV1A MicroVAX Driver and X.25 Link Level Software product Driver
will support up to eight KMV1A Controllers per MicroVAX II/MicroVAX
host. Each KMV1A Controller supports one communication line. The
software product will perform full duplex data transmission at a maximum
of 19.2 Kbps simultaneously on each of up to eight KMV1A communication
lines. Achievement of this performance is subject to constraints applied 
by the total system loading of the MicroVAX II/MicroVAX host.

When the tracing utility is enabled, maximum KMV1A communication
performance cannot be achieved. When the tracing utility is selected on one 
or two communication lines, full duplex data transmission at a
maximum of 19.2 Kbps can be achievable simultaneously on each line. When
tracing is enabled on more than two lines, performance may be lower.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

MicroVAX configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum
(SSA 28.27.01-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

VMS Operating System 

Refer to the System Support Addendum for availablity and required versions 
of Prerequisite/Optional software (SSA 28.27.01-x).

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

None

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VCQA*-**
Software Media: QA-VCQA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VCQAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VCQA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This product supports the VMS License Management Facility.  License units 
for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the VMS 
Operating System documentation set.

For more information on DIGITAL's licensing policies, contact your 
local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more information 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

August 1988
AE-HS98B-TN
