PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Volume Shadowing, Version 5.1 	   SPD 27.29.04
    
DESCRIPTION 
    
VAX Volume Shadowing is a feature available on VMS systems using HSC
controllers with RA-series disks. This feature enhances data availability by
duplicating all data written to disk onto two or three compatible disk
volumes. (Compatible disks are those that have the same physical geometry.) 
The system disk and FILES-11 ODS2 data disks may be volume shadowed.  Shadow
sets may be used as constituents of a volume set. 
    
A set of two or three disks on which the data is duplicated is called a
``shadow set''.  A disk which is part of a shadow set is called a ``member''.
 Every member of a shadow set is identical to every other member of the
shadow set.  In the event of failure of any shadow set member, disk
input/output continues with the remaining member(s) of the shadow set. Since
it does not provide for recovery from accidental file deletion, volume
shadowing is not a complete substitute for regular BACKUP operations. 
    
Shadow Set Membership 
    
The minimum number of disks in a shadow set is one. The maximum number of
disks in a shadow set is three.  The ability to have a shadow set with only a
single member allows a two-member shadow set to continue operation after the
failure of one member. It also allows normal operation of a single member
shadow set and addition of a second member during a volume backup procedure. 
 
Refer to the ``Restrictions'' section of this SPD for further information on
shadow set membership. 
    
Transparency to the End User 
    
The shadow set appears to act as a single disk, that is, the user makes no
effort to have the data propagated to all of the members of a shadow set. 
Rather, it is a task of the volume shadowing function to replicate the data
on all shadow set members. 
    
The syntax and semantics of reading and writing data to and from a shadow set
is identical to the syntax and semantics used for non-shadowed I/O
operations. That is, all commands and program language features which address
data on non-shadowed disks may be used to address data on shadowed disks. 
    
Enabling and disabling shadowing for a particular disk requires dismounting
and remounting the disk. Disks may be added to or removed from the shadow set
without affecting either the end user or any application. 
    
Shadow Set Transitions 
    
A disk is removed from the shadow set either by operator command, or in the
event that the disk becomes inoperative.  In the latter case, the removal of
the shadow set member is performed automatically, no operator intervention is
required. 
   
A disk is added to the shadow set only upon command of the operator. The
volume shadowing routines ensure that, within a reasonable period of time,
the newly added shadow set member is made identical to the other member.
Read/write access to the shadow set is permitted while the new member is
being made identical to the other member. 
    
Disks may be added to or removed from the shadow set at any time. Some
removal methods guarantee complete data consistency and others do not. When a
shadow set is properly dismounted and dissolved, i.e. a DISMOUNT command has
been executed and SHOW DEVICE shows the shadow set as dismounted, all shadow
set members are fully consistent.  However, disks that are former members of
an improperly dismounted shadow set may contain inconsistent file system or
user data. 
   
Automatic Failover of Dual-Pathed Disks 
    
Shadow set members may be dual-pathed between two HSC controllers, i.e., each
disk may be connected to each of two controllers.  Should the disks be
dual-pathed, every disk must be dual-pathed between the same two HSC
controllers. At any given time, only one HSC actually controls the shadow
set. In the event of a controller failure, the volume shadowing software
transfers the shadow set from the failed controller to the operational
controller. Thus, the remaining controller will continue to perform the I/O
with no loss of data. 
    
Refer to  the ``Restrictions'' section for information on shadow set
membership. 
    
System Disk Shadow Sets 
   
The system disk (or boot device), like all other disks, may belong to a
shadow set. If this is the case, normal system operation is conducted using a
shadow set that contains the system boot device. However, when no members of
a VAXcluster system have a shadowed system disk mounted (e.g. when no other
VAXcluster members are booted), that shadow set does not exist. When the
required shadow set does not exist, the initial stages of system booting are
performed using only the single disk system boot device. 
   
During this brief interval, a hardware failure occurring in the single disk
boot device may adversely affect the system's ability to boot. In this
respect, shadowed system disks are briefly identical to non-shadowed system
disks. After the initial stages of system booting, shadowed system disks have
most of the failure recovery properties of shadow sets. 
   
Restrictions 
   
In a VAXcluster system, the quorum disk cannot be shadowed. 
 
The maximum number of disks per HSC (or per HSC pair in the case of
dual-pathed disks) that may be shadowed is sixteen. 

The maximum number of shadow sets per HSC (or per HSC pair in the case of
dual-pathed disks) is eight. 

The maximum number of disks per shadow set is three. 

Advanced Technology Implementation 
    
This volume shadowing product combines the efforts of an intelligent
controller and a host operating system into a single shadowing solution. By
allowing the two participants to perform those tasks to which they are best
suited, the volume shadowing product in conjunction with the VMS Operating
System and the HSC-series controller achieves maximum product performance
with minimal processor overhead. 
    
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
    
Refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
and VAXcluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) for hardware
requirements and supported processors. 
    
At least one HSC series controller is required. 
   
At least two RA-series disks having the same geometry (i.e. of the same type)
are required. In a VAXcluster system, the quorum file cannot be on a shadowed
disk. Therefore, in those VAXcluster systems in which a quorum file is being
used, a minimum of two RA-series disks having the same geometry are required
for the shadow set, and an additional disk is required for the quorum file. 
   
OPTIONAL HARDWARE 
    
Shadow sets may contain up to three shadow set members. Each shadow set
member must be an RA-series disk with geometry identical to that of the other
shadow set members. 
    
For each HSC (or per HSC pair in the case of dual-pathed disks), up to a
total of sixteen disks may be shadowed. 

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid and
licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions.  The HARDWARE
REQUIREMENTS sections of this product's Software Product Description and the
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) detail any
special hardware required by this product. 

* V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster 
  Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet and Mixed 
  Interconnect configurations.
  
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
    
VMS Operating System V5.1
  
HSC Software, at least at Version 3.5 
   
In a VAXcluster system, each VAX must be running the same version of VMS. 
    
VMS Tailoring

For VMS 5.0 systems, the VMS Required Saveset contains what is necessary for
full functionality of this layered product. 

For more information on VMS classes and tailoring, refer to the VMS Operating
System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx). 

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE
  
None

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS
  
The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of this
product may be different from the minimum requirements of the current
version. 

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-AB2A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-AB2AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-AB2A*-**

*  Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses, 
   services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. 

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License
Management Utility Manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set. 

For more information on DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your
local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY
 
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
this SPD. 
  
The above information is valid at the time of release.  Please contact 
your local DIGITAL office for the most up-to-date information.
  


January 1989
AE-HP37E-TE

