 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:   DEC Computer Integrated Telephony      SPD 29.92.05
                Applications Interface for VMS, Version
                3.0A

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC Computer Integrated Telephony (CIT) Applications Interface is a
 software product that provides programmers with an applications in-
 terface comprising a library of VMS routines. These routines allow the
 applications programmer to establish and control logical communica-
 tions channels between a user process on a VAX and devices attached
 to a CIT-compatible voice switch.

 These channels can be used for the following:

 o  Basic call processing such as making and accepting telephone calls

 o  Additional call processing such as transferring and conferencing
    calls

 o  Monitoring the status of telephones

 The CIT Applications Interface routines also allow the programmer to
 establish communications channels with one or more DECvoice modules.
 The CIT Applications Interface passes the application's requests to
 the DEC CIT Server software, which must be installed on a VAX system
 or MicroServer connected to a CIT-compatible voice switch over a syn-
 chronous communications link. For more information on the DEC CIT Server
 products, refer to SPD 36.33.xx and SPD 29.91.xx.

 The CIT Applications Interface routines also allow the programmer to
 establish communications channels with one or more DECvoice modules.

                               DIGITAL                    April 1993

                                                         AE-LN54F-TE

 

 The following diagram illustrates an example of a DEC CIT system with
 a VMS client.

 DEC CIT Applications Interface Routines

 DEC CIT Applications Interface routines provide the following func-
 tions:

 o  Control of the Communication Channel

    -  Establishing and releasing logical communications channels

    -  Monitoring a channel which is assigned to a telephony device or
       entity (such as an ACD group)

 o  Basic Call Processing

    -  Making calls

    -  Hanging up calls

 o  Holding and retrieving calls

 o  Canceling calls and responding to incomplete calls

 o  Transferring and conferencing calls

 o  Answering calls

 o  Predictive dialing

 o  Call routing

 o  Voice digitization (recording voice)

 o  Voice synthesis (text to speech)

 o  Voice recognition (speaker independent)

 o  Voice message handling

 o  Generating and recognizing tones

 Supported Routines

                                  2

 

 The following routines are supported for controlling the communica-
 tions channels:

 o  Assign

 o  Deassign

 o  Set Device Attributes

    -  Set Monitor

    -  Set Call Forward

    -  Do-not-disturb

    -  Set or Cancel Message-Waiting Lamp/Indicator

    -  Set ACD Agent Status

 o  Get Device Attributes

 o  Get Channel Information

 o  Get Event
    The Get Event routine returns call progress information which in-
    cludes call states, events, and call party information.

 Basic Call Processing functions set up calls, disconnect calls, and
 include the following routines:

 o  Make Call

 o  Go offhook (DECvoice specific)

 o  Hangup Call

 Routines for holding and retrieving calls include:

 o  Suspend Call

 o  Resume Call

 o  Pickup Call

 o  Swap-with-Held

 o  Retrieve Held

                                  3

 

 o  Reconnect Held

 Routines for canceling calls and responding to incomplete calls in-
 clude:

 o  Cancel Call

 o  Respond to Inactive Call

 For transferring and conferencing calls, the following routines are
 available:

 o  Initiate Transfer Call

 o  Transfer Call

 o  Initiate Conference Call

 o  Conference Call

 For answering calls, the routine provided is:

 o  Answer Call

 For routing calls, the following routines are available:

 o  Deflect Call

 o  Get Route Query

 o  Respond to Route Query

 Although all of the above routines are available through the DEC CIT
 Applications Interface, not all voice switches support the full range
 of functions over their CIT-links. In addition, only some of the above
 telephony routines are available for use with a DECvoice module.

 For recording voice messages (digitization), the following routines
 are available:

 o  Record

 o  Record End

 o  Record Pause

                                  4

 

 o  Record Resume

 For creating voice messages from text (voice synthesis) the follow-
 ing routines are available:

 o  Speak String

 o  Create text message

 For playing text or digitized voice messages:

 o  Play

 o  Play End

 o  Play Pause

 o  Play Resume

 o  Position

 For speaker-independent voice recognition:

 o  Recognize

 The following voice message handling routines enable an application
 to control voice data on the client and server, identify voice mes-
 sages, concatenate messages, convert from one message format to an-
 other, and display information on the structure of a message:

 o  Convert

 o  Create Context

 o  Create PCM Message

 o  Get Context Information

 o  Get Message Information

 o  Free Context

 o  Free Message

 o  Load Data

                                  5

 

 o  Unload Data

 The following routines are available for generating and detecting tones:

 o  Make Tone

 o  Make DTMF

 o  Get DTMF Key

 Documentation

 DEC CIT Applications Interface documentation includes:

 o  DEC CIT Applications Interface for VMS - Programming

 o  DEC CIT Applications Interface for VMS - Programming Reference

 o  DEC CIT Applications Interface - CSTA Information

 o  DEC CIT Applications Interface for VMS - Installation and Config-
    uration

 PTT Requirements

 Although the voice switch manufacturers are responsible for ensuring
 that the voice switch software meets PTT regulations, some of those
 regulations may apply to application software. If in doubt, refer to
 the appropriate documentation supplied by the PTT authorities for spe-
 cific details.

 INSTALLATION

 Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this prod-
 uct. Digital recommends that all other customers purchase Digital's
 Installation Services. These services provide for installation of the
 software product by an experienced Digital Software Specialist.



                                  6

 

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Systems, components, and peripherals as specified in the System Sup-
 port Addendum (SSA 29.92.05-x).

 A DEC CIT Server system must be installed and connected to a properly
 configured, CIT-compatible voice switch before you can test or use the
 CIT Applications Interface.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX Phase IV (end-node or full-function node license) if more
    than one CIT system is part of the configuration

 o  DEC CIT Server software (DEC CIT Server for VMS V3.0A or DEC CIT
    Server 100/5000 V1.0A) installed on either the same node as the CIT
    Applications Interface software, or on another system linked by DEC-
    net to the node with the CIT Applications Interface software

 Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required ver-
 sions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 29.92.05-x).

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-VGXA*-**
 Software Media and Documentation: QA-VGXAA-H5
 Software Documentation: QA-VGXAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VGXA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.







                                  7

 

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
 ing System documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECnet, DECvoice, Digital, MicroVAX,
    OpenVMS, TK, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXstation, VAXserver, and
    VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.



                                  8
