DECprint Utility for PostScript (R)				SPD 31.56.00
to Sixel Printing for VMS, Version 1.0

DESCRIPTION

DECprint Utility for PostScript to Sixel Printing for VMS allows 
printing of PostScript files on Digital Equipment Corporation's desktop 
graphics sixel printers. Color PostScript files can be printed in color 
on the LJ250 Companion Color Printer or with a color ribbon installed on 
the LA324 MultiPrinter.  Color files will print in gray shades on 
black/white printers.

The software uses a host-based PostScript interpreter to print 
PostScript files to Digital's sixel graphics desktop printers.  The 
printer may be attached to a video terminal printer port or the output 
file can be directed to a shared printer print queue.

The following printers are supported:

oo     LJ250 Companion Color Printer

oo     LA75 Companion Printer

oo     LA324 MultiPrinter

oo     LA210 Letterprinter

oo     LN03 Plus Desktop Laser Printer

The DECprint Utility uses a standard DCL command format.  Most DCL PRINT 
qualifiers are supported as well as the following DECprint Utility 
specific qualifiers:

      /ATTACHED=device-type

      /[NO]LAYUP=n

      /MEDIUM=paper-size

      /[NO]MESSAGES

      /ORIENTATION=portrait or landscape

DCL qualifiers for ASCII text formatting, file selection and some 
miscellaneous qualifiers are not supported.
 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 31.56.00-x).
F
RO PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Incorporated.
F

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

oo     VMS Operating System

For Workstations Running VWS:

oo     VMS Operating System

oo     VMS Workstation Software

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VZPA*-**
Software Media: QA-VZPA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VZPAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VZPA*-**

*     Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
      licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of  Digital 
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more  
information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact  your 
local Digital office.

Adobe Systems Incorporated, License Terms and Agreement

1    Licensor grants to Licensee a nonexclusive sublicense, subject to 
     Paragraph 8 below and the other provisions hereof (a) to use a 
     single copy of the IMPP ("Software") solely for Licensee's own 
     internal business purposes on a Digital Computer; (b) to use the 
     digitally-encoded machine-readable outline and bitmap programs 
     ("Font Programs") provided by Licensor in a special encrypted 
     format ("Coded Font Programs") and identified herewith to reproduce 
     and display designs, styles, weights, and versions of letters, 
     numerals, characters and symbols ("Typefaces" and "Screen 
     Typefaces") solely for Licensee's own customary business or 
     personal purposes on the screen

     of the DEC computer; and (c) to use the trademarks used by Licensor 
     to identify the Coded Font Programs and Typefaces reproduced 
     therefrom ("Trademarks"). Licensee may assign its rights under this 
     Agreement to a licensee of all of Licensee's right, title and 
     interest to such Software and Coded Font Programs provided the 
     licensee agrees to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of 
     this Agreement.

2    Licensee acknowledges that the Software, Coded Font Programs, 
     Typefaces and Trademarks are proprietary to Licensor and its 
     suppliers. Licensee agrees to hold the Software and Coded Font 
     Programs in confidence, disclosing the Software and Coded Font 
     Programs only to authorized employees having a need to use the 
     Software and Coded Font Programs as permitted by this Agreement and 
     to take all reasonable precautions to prevent disclosure to other 
     parties.

3    Licensee will not make or have made, or permit to be made, any 
     copies of the Software or Coded Font Programs or portions thereof, 
     except as permitted under the terms of its single-use license on a 
     DEC Computer hereunder. Licensee agrees that any such copies shall 
     contain the same proprietary notices which appear on or in the 
     Software of the Coded Font Programs.

4    Except as stated above, this Agreement does not grant Licensee any 
     rights to patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade names, 
     trademarks (whether registered or unregistered), or any other 
     rights, franchises, or licenses in respect of the Software, Coded 
     Font Programs, Typefaces, or Trademarks. Licensee will not adapt or 
     use any trademark or trade name which is likely to be similar to or 
     confusing with that of Licensor or any of its suppliers or take any 
     other action which impairs or reduces the trademark rights of 
     Licensor or its suppliers. Any use of the Trademarks must identify 
     the applicable "Trademark Owner". At the reasonable request of 
     Licensor, Licensee must supply samples of any Typeface identified 
     by a Trademark.

5    Licensee agrees that it will not attempt to alter, disassemble, 
     decrypt or reverse compile the Software or Coded Font Programs.

6    Licensee acknowledges that the laws and regulations of the United 
     States restrict the export and re-export of commodities and 
     technical data of United States origin, including the Software or 
     Coded Font Programs. Licensee agrees that it will not export or 
     re-export the Software or Coded Font Programs in any form without 
     the appropriate United States and foreign government licenses. 
     Licensee agrees that its obligations pursuant to this section shall 
     survive and continue after any termination or expiration of rights 
     under this Agreement.

7    The Software licensed hereunder is restricted to use on a DEC 
     Computer to generate bitmap images to output devices with (i) 
     resolutions up to 400 dpi and speeds of 10 ppm or less in the case 
     of monochrome devices or (ii) resolutions up to 200 dpi and speeds 
     of 10 ppm or less in the case of color devices. Licensee agrees not 
     to make use of the Software, directly or indirectly, to print 
     bitmap images with print resolutions of over 400 dots/per/inch, or 
     to generate Fonts or Type-faces for use other than with the DEC 
     Computer. Any failure of Licensee to comply with this provision is 
     a material breach of this End User Agreement.

8    Licensee agrees that Adobe Systems Incorporated is a third party 
     beneficiary of this End User Agreement.

License Management Facility Support

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a User/Activity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital.  For more 
information, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

December 1989
AE-NL30A-TE

(R) The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment 
Corporation.

(TM) DECprint, LJ250, LA75, LA324, LA210, LN03, DECwindows, VAX, VMS, VWS, 
MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver and VAXcluster are trademarks of Digital 
Equipment Corporation.
