 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           ___________________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:   BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0 SPD
           47.80.00

           DESCRIPTION

           BASEstar Open software facilitates the integration of manufacturing
           applications and plant equipment. Accelerated development of integrated
           manufacturing systems is assured through an architecture that also en-
           courages consistency of application development.

           BASEstar Open takes advantage of the client/server computing archi-
           tecture. While the server software library supplies all supported ser-
           vices, the client software library allows the application to access
           the same services. A client can also access the services from a dif-
           ferent node connected on the network. Client and server communications
           within BASEstar Open are provided through TCP/IP network communica-
           tions. In order to be used the BASEstar Open Client license always re-
           quire that a BASEstar Open Server license is installed on the server
           node.

           BASEstar Open software provides services that allow a comprehensive
           support for manufacturing application integration, device connection,
           and control of plant equipment.

           The software operates in a distributed processing environment and its
           application integration features include:

           o  Collection, management, and distribution of plant data

           o  Automatic notification of significant (and critical) events in a
              plant

           o  Exchange of packets of data through a peer-to-peer communication

           o  Execution of synchronization for manufacturing applications

                                         DIGITAL                 November 1993

                                                                   AE-Q1QKA-TE

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


           In addition, the software has the capability of allowing applications
           that are distributed across different nodes in the network to use glob-
           ally defined objects.

           Devices integration software provides services to access and control
           plant floor equipment based on proprietary and standards communica-
           tion protocols. Specific communication services are provided through
           the Device Access Software (DAS) which is not covered by the BASEs-
           tar Open license.

           BASEstar Open has the following interfaces:

           o  The Command Line Interface (CLI) is used by system managers and man-
              ufacturing engineers to configure and manage BASEstar objects.

           o  The Application Programming Interface (API) is used by software de-
              velopers and provides callable services for application integra-
              tion.

           o  The Graphic Configuration Utility is a VMS DECwindows Motif[R] based
              graphical tool for configuring object definitions.

           Note: Callable device services are provided through DEComni (OSI Man-
           ufacturing Network Interface) Application Programming Interface which
           is covered by the BASEstar Open Server license. This interface is mod-
           eled on the MMS (Manufacturing Message Specification) standard as spec-
           ified in the ISO 9506 definition.

           BASEstar Open Client is licensed for
           "Unlimited System Use".

           Features

           Application Integration

           o  Data Management

              BASEstar Open Data Services provide a standard mechanism for defin-
              ing, organizing, and accessing data in a distributed manufactur-
              ing environment from a variety of sources including: plant devices
              as well as area, plant, and work cell applications.

                                            2

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


              BASEstar Open defines discrete data elements (datapoints) to man-
              age manufacturing information. Datapoint definitions can be of var-
              ious types, ranging from scalar data elements to user defined data
              structures. This maximizes the flexibility of data definition and
              acquisition.

              Because each datapoint is referenced by name, applications are in-
              dependent of data sources and, consequently, do not require alter-
              ation when data sources change. In addition, simple datapoints can
              have a predefined value specified at startup time. Data services
              allow applications to define and manage datapoints.

              Each datapoint can be associated with one or more triggers. A trig-
              ger defines a relationship between a datapoint, a filter, and an
              event. Each time the value of a triggered data point changes, as-
              sociated filter expressions are evaluated. Whenever the Boolean re-
              sult of an evaluated filter expression is TRUE, the associated event
              is declared.

              One or more versions of a datapoint value can be stored. A version
              is made up of, in addition to the value, the time when the data-
              point value changed and its status at that time.

              A new version is generated each time the value of a datapoint changes
              for any reason. A user can request the current version, and thus
              the current value, or alternatively the value associated with any
              cached version.

           o  Event Services

              BASEstar Open event services allow users to subscribe to one or more
              events. Events are occurrences that are of interest to an appli-
              cation program-threshold exceeding, alarms firing, job completion,
              and so on. Users can also define the occurrence of such events and
              specify the context information that should be passed. This con-
              text information can also include typed data.

              In order to be notified of the occurrence of a specific event, the
              application is required to issue a subscription to the event.

              When an event is declared, event services create and deliver the
              notifications that can be received by subscribers. A single event

                                            3

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


              declaration can generate many notifications on a one to many re-
              lationship. This depends on the number of active subscriptions.

           o  Packet Services

              BASEstar Open Packet Services allow users to directly exchange pack-
              ets of information. Two users can establish direct communication
              through a port to be used to send a packet, and from which a part-
              ner can be connected to receive it.

              A packet contains a description of the information that must be ex-
              changed. Each input and output parameter of a packet is described
              by means of a datatype.

              BASEstar Open delivers a packet to a port in a protocol indepen-
              dent manner and regardless of the location of the involved users
              and ports.

           o  Application Services

              BASEstar Open application services provide all the functions re-
              quired to manage and coordinate manufacturing applications. These
              applications may be standalone or distributed across the nodes of
              a network.

              Application services allow users to organize application activi-
              ties into hierarchical structures that support the execution startup
              and shutdown of synchronized activities, and user-defined error re-
              covery policies.

              An application activity can be executed, suspended, resumed, and
              terminated. All activity states are monitored. If an activity (or
              node) fails, several recovery policies can be applied. For instance,
              in case of node failure, an application can be restarted on an al-
              ternative node.

           o  Application Development Support

              To assist in developing applications, especially when debugging or
              troubleshooting, a source trace tool is provided. This tool is used
              internally by BASEstar Open and is also available to users for mon-
              itoring the execution flow of an application.

                                            4

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


              Trace facilities can be dynamically enabled or disabled by spec-
              ifying different granularity levels; it is not required that the
              user stops and restarts the tracing process. The output of the trace
              tool can be routed to several kinds of output devices-memory, files,
              terminals, and so on.

           Device Integration

           o  Device Management

              BASEstar Open software enables applications to interact with plant
              devices without knowledge of physical device characteristics such
              as location, protocol, or device specific data formats. Physical
              devices are modeled in compliance with the MMS standard - Message
              Manufacturing Specification ISO 9506. These, however, are accessed
              through specific software (DAS) which provides operations such as
              reading and writing of simple and structured data.

           o  Data Collection

              BASEstar Open software collects data from plant devices on request
              from the host node (solicited), at predefined intervals (polling),
              or when generated by a device (unsolicited).

              Polling is a means to collect data by reading specified address reg-
              isters in the memory of a programmable device at pre-defined in-
              tervals. To do so, the application is required to define a set of
              datapoints (pollsets) from which data need to be collected.

              In addition, BASEstar Open can receive unsolicited data from plant
              equipment. The ability to collect unsolicited data directly from
              a device eliminates the processing overhead involved in continu-
              ous polling.

           o  Device Access Software (DAS)

              Different manufacturing devices use different services and commu-
              nication protocols to connect to a computer system. These services
              and communication protocols are control vendor proprietary.


                                            5

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


              BASEstar Open DAS software addresses proprietary communication spec-
              ifications to access device controllers that is available on the
              market from multiple control vendors.

              Device Access Software for most leading industrial control devices
              is available through Digital.

           o  BASEstar Classic device connectivity integration

              BASEstar Open includes a subset of BASEstar Classic to enable the
              use of the DASes available through the BASEstar Classic DCM con-
              nectivity. For more information, refer to the BASEstar Classic for
              OpenVMS Software Product Description (SPD 33.17.xx).

           Configuration Management

           o  Named Objects

              The BASEstar Open environment is a collection of named objects which
              represent plant devices and datapoints-alarms, data status, pro-
              duction counts, and so on. Manufacturing applications can access
              these resources according to a functional use rather than in a sys-
              tem dependent manner which would require, for instance, informa-
              tion on physical locations.

              BASEstar Open objects reside in domains. Domains are hierarchically
              linked to form a BASEstar Open Realm. Several Realms can be active
              at the same time.

           o  Local and Remote Objects Access

              BASEstar Open objects can be directly accessed within a Realm by
              using the object's full pathname. The full pathname includes the
              local name preceded by the relevant domain names. Alternatively,
              the user can set the default domain and access objects in that do-
              main using local names, and objects in lower domains using partial
              pathnames.

           o  Logging

              In addition to error and diagnostic information, BASEstar Open al-
              lows the logging of significant events. For instance, the creation
              of an object definition.

                                            6

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


           o  System Configuration and Tuning

              BASEstar Open software provides command procedures that can be used
              to tune object configurations. A system manager can use the sug-
              gested values as guidelines in setting parameter values to opti-
              mize the usage of system resources.

           BASEstar Open Interfaces

           o  Command Line Interface (CLI)

              The BASEstar Open CLI is a command interface for use by system man-
              agers, process engineers, and application programmers. Commands are
              provided for performing general operations such as BASEstar Open
              object configuration and management.

           o  Graphic Configuration Utility (GCU)

              The Graphic Configuration Utility is a VMS DECwindows Motif-based
              graphical tool which is mainly intended to help application devel-
              opers in configuring objects definition in the Permanent Object Database
              (PODB).

              By using this Configuration Utility, the application can create,
              modify, delete and rename BASEstar Open PODB objects. It can also
              display the graphical layout of the BASEstar Open configuration.

           o  Application Programming Interface (API)

              The BASEstar Open API allows software programmers to create and in-
              tegrate manufacturing applications using BASEstar Open services.

           Documentation

           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX includes the following documen-
           tation:

           o  BASEstar Open Introduction provides an overview of the services and
              concepts within BASEstar Open.

           o  BASEstar Open Reference Guide provides the definition and speci-
              fication of the object model within BASEstar Open.

                                            7

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


           o  BASEstar Open Application Programming Interface provides the spec-
              ification of the callable interface to access BASEstar Open ser-
              vices.

           o  BASEstar Open Command Line Interface provides the specification of
              the command line interface to access BASEstar Open services.

           o  BASEstar Open Management Guide provides the information to manage
              the BASEstar Open environment.

           o  BASEstar Open Messages provides the definition and the description
              of BASEstar Open error messages and suggested solutions.

           o  BASEstar Open Configuration Utility User's Guide provides infor-
              mation on how to configure BASEstar Open objects through the sup-
              ported VMS DECwindows Motif graphical user interface.

           o  BASEstar Open for OpenVMS Installation Guide provides instructions
              on how to install BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX.

           INSTALLATION

           Only experienced customers should attempt the installation. Digital
           recommends that all other customers purchase Digital's Installation
           Services.

           Digital recommends that the first purchase of this software product
           should include Digital's Installation Services. These services sup-
           port installation of the software product by an experienced Digital
           Software Specialist.

           Note: Should a software specialist be required to modify the operat-
           ing system parameters from a previous installation, a prevailing rate
           time and materials charge will apply.

           Connectivity to all other nodes within the network is the responsi-
           bility of the customer. Delays caused by any failure to meet these re-
           sponsibilities will be charged at the prevailing rate for time and ma-
           terials.


                                            8

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processors and hardware configurations as specified in the System Sup-
           port Addendum (SSA 47.80.00-A).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           The following software is part of the requirements for BASEstar Open:

           o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx)

           o  DEC RdB V4.1 for OpenVMS VAX (SPD 25.59.xx)

           o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS (SPD 25.A4.xx)

           DEC RdB for OpenVMS VAX is required for applications which make use
           of the Permanent Object Database (PODB).

           For systems using DECwindows terminals the following software is also
           required:

           o  VMS DECwindows Motif (SPD 36.09.xx)

           Note: The License Management Facility (LMF) is included as part of the
           OpenVMS VAX Operating System. Customers wishing to purchase a BASEs-
           tar Open License must have LMF installed on their system.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum
           (SSA 47.80.00-A) for availability and required versions of prerequi-
           site and optional software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX:

           Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0Y8A9-AA
           Software Documentation: QA-0Y8AA-GZ
           Software Media: QA-0Y8AA-**
           Software Product Services: QT-0Y8A*-**


                                            9

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00


           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
              censes, services, and media refer to the appropriate price book.


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
           Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
           formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
           local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support:

           This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
           ity.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
           OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
           or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
           ing System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
           tact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
           formation, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
           chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
           Addendum of this SPD.







                                            10

 



           BASEstar Open Client for OpenVMS VAX Version 2.0       SPD 47.80.00



           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, BASEstar Classic, BASEstar Open, Bookreader,
               DEC, DEComni, DECosap, DECstation, DECsystem, DECnet, DECnet-VAX,
               DECwindows, Digital, MicroVAX, TK, VAX, VAXserver, VAXstation
               OpenVMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

           [R] AT is a registered trademark of International Business Machines
               Corporation.

































                                            11
