

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX    SPD 25.48.24

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC DBMS[TM] is a multi-user, general purpose CODASYL-compliant 
 database management system that runs under the OpenVMS[TM] VAX[TM]
 operating system. DEC DBMS is used to access and administer 
 databases ranging in complexity from simple hierarchies to complex 
 networks with multilevel relationships. It supports full concurrent
 access in a multiuser environment without compromising the 
 integrity and security of the user's databases.

 Features

 o  Full concurrent access capabilities (storage, retrieval, update,
    and deletion) in a multi-user environment

 o  Record locking and journaling

 o  Automatic transaction and verb rollback

 o  Multiple database support (one or more databases per process)

 o  Two Phase Commit capability atomically commits or rolls back 
    updates across multiple databases in one transaction 
    (Optional -- Refer to SSA 25.48.24-x for details)

 o  Full VAXcluster[TM] support, including automatic recovery upon 
    node failure



                               DIGITAL                   August 1993

                                                         AE-L818Y-TE

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 o  Integration with CDD/Repository[TM] for OpenVMS

 o  Schema, Subschema, Storage Schema, and Security Schema Data 
    Definition Languages (DDLs)

 o  Security audit logging of database and Security Schema access

 o  FORTRAN Data Manipulation Language (FDML)

 o  COBOL DML statements supported by the VAX
    COBOL[TM] compiler

 o  Generic DML preprocessor for BASIC, BLISS, C, DIBOL, Pascal, 
    PL/I, and VAX Ada[TM]

 o  Callable interpretive interface for any VAX language that 
    adheres to the OpenVMS calling standard

 o  Automatic subschema definition extraction from the 
    CDD/Repository for BASIC, BLISS, C, COBOL, DIBOL, MACRO, Pascal,
    PL/I, and VAX Ada when using the high-level call interface or 
    generic DML preprocessor

 o  Easy-to-use utility command language (DBO)

 o  Database Restructuring Utility (DRU) provides the ability to 
    change many database characteristics without unloading and 
    reloading the database

 o  Interactive Database Query utility (DBQ) with video display of 
    subschema structure diagrams on VT100[TM], VT200, or VT300[TM],
    compatible terminals



                                  2

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 o  Online and incremental database verification including 
    verification by set

 o  Full and incremental database backup with or without concurrent 
    database users

 o  Full and incremental database restore of the entire database or 
    individual areas

 o  Ability to redo a sequence of committed transactions (roll 
    forward)

 o  Initial Load utility; Unload utility for data extraction; 
    functionality for database restructuring with Unload/Load

 o  BATCH RETRIEVAL ready mode (database snapshots) for increased 
              concurrency in large retrieval applications
 o  Space Area Management (SPAM) pages that improve database 
    free-space search performance

 o  Boolean record selection expression with index optimization on 
    FIND and FETCH DML statements

 o  Data compression of data items and database key (DBKey) pointers

 o  Direct record access through the use of database key (DBKey) 
    pointers

 o  Automatic expansion of large records across multiple database 
    pages

 o  Simple restructuring, including adding AREAS and initializing 
    AREAS, without unloading and reloading a database


                                  3

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 o  Sorted sets implemented with B-trees or simple chains; prefix 
    and suffix compression for sort keys with the B-tree 
    implementation 

 o  DECnet[TM] database access to provide full remote read/write 
    access to nonredundant distributed databases

 Data Definition

 DEC DBMS has a four-part data definition language. The schema DDL 
 defines the logical structure of the database, the storage schema
 DDL defines the physical structure of the database, the subschema
 DDL defines application program views of the schema, and the 
 security schema DDL defines access rights to database objects.

 The schema DDL is the only DDL that must be written. By default, 
 the DDL compiler produces a default subschema, storage schema, and
 security schema for every schema it compiles.

 The schema DDL defines the records, sets, and areas composing the 
 database. A record is a collection of data items. A set is a 
 relationship between records having one owner record and one or 
 more member records in some specified order. An area is a logical 
 and physical subdivision of the database that contains records.
 The storage schema DDL defines the representation of storage 
 records, storage sets, and storage areas (which are equivalent 
 to OpenVMS files).

 It also defines the placement of records within the database, the 
 storage set parameters, and the representation of data items within
 a storage record. Most database tuning is accomplished by changing 
 the storage schema.

 The subschema DDL defines a logical subset of the database in terms

                                  4

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 of records, sets, and realms (a collection of one or more areas). 
 Many subschemas can be written to provide different views of the 
 database for different application programs.

 The security schema DDL defines the access rights to all database 
 objects. DML statement access rights for each user can be defined 
 for each DML statement on areas, records, items, and sets.

 All database structure definitions are established and maintained 
 by the DDL compiler and stored in the CDD/Repository for OpenVMS,
 where they can be retrieved by DEC DBMS utilities, VAX COBOL and 
 DEC DATATRIEVE[TM].

 Data Manipulation

 Application programs must call the Database Control System (DBCS) 
 for all database operations. The specific database operations 
 supported are: CONNECT, DISCONNECT, ERASE, FETCH, FIND, GET, 
 MODIFY, RECONNECT, and STORE for manipulating database records 
 and sets; FREE and KEEP for saving and purging database currencies
 and keeplists; COMMIT, READY, and ROLLBACK for controlling the 
 permanence in nondistributed transactions; ALSO, EMPTY, MEMBER, 
 OWNER, TENANT, NULL, and WITHIN conditions for testing the state 
 of the database, currencies, and keeplists. A Boolean expression 
 with EQ, NE, LE, LT, GT, GE, AND, OR, NOT, MATCHES, or CONTAINS 
 operators can be used on the FIND and FETCH statements.

 Application programs written in COBOL and FORTRAN perform database
 operations with a set of Data Manipulation Language (DML) state-
 ments included in the source code. COBOL DML statements are com-
 piled by the VAX COBOL compiler. FORTRAN DML statements are trans-
 lated by the DEC DBMS FORTRAN DML Preprocessor into FORTRAN source
 code that is compiled by the DEC Fortran[TM], compiler. Applica-
 tion programs written in BASIC, BLISS, C, DIBOL, Pascal, PL/I, and

                                  5

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 VAX Ada can access a database through a generic DML preprocessor. 
 DML statements can be included directly into the program. The 
 source file is then passed on to the appropriate host language 
 compiler.

 Run-Time Environment (Integrity and Consistency Features)

 The Database Control System (DBCS) controls access to DEC DBMS 
 databases. The DBCS ensures the integrity of user databases by 
 automatically locking records that have been modified, records 
 representing currencies, and records on keeplists. Optionally, 
 the DBA can request that all records read in a particular database 
 be locked for the life of the database transaction. Users cannot 
 modify data in records that are locked by another user. Moreover, 
 users cannot read data that another user has modified but not yet 
 committed. When a user process terminates or executes a ROLLBACK 
 or COMMIT operation, all locks are released. When a user process 
 executes a COMMIT RETAINING operation, all record locks not in 
 currency indicators or keeplists are released and all records
 locked for update are changed to read locks. Locking of entire 
 areas can be used to improve performance in certain applications. 
 The OpenVMS lock manager services ($ENQ and $DEQ) are used for 
 locking.

 All database changes between READY and COMMIT or ROLLBACK 
 operations are recorded in a recovery-unit journal. When a user 
 performs a COMMIT operation, all database changes are made 
 permanent. A ROLLBACK operation will undo all database changes.

 The DBCS automatically performs a ROLLBACK operation on any 
 uncommitted database changes if a program error or system failure 
 occurs. Recovery-unit journaling can be disabled by readying an 
 AREA in BATCH UPDATE mode, which can result in improved perfor-


                                  6

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 mance. A risk of disabling the recovery-unit journaling is that 
 the database might be corrupted should a system failure occur.

 The BATCH RETRIEVAL ready mode, also called a snapshot, can be used
 by retrieval transactions that read many records, require a consis-
 tent view of the database, and do not handle deadlock conditions. A
 database must have snapshots allowed to enable transactions in 
 BATCH RETRIEVAL mode; snapshots may be enabled per area.
 Optionally, long-term after-images can be saved and used by the DBO
 utility to recover from storage device or system software failures.
 This approach is strongly recommended.

 VAXcluster Environment

 DEC DBMS databases can operate in a VAXcluster environment, thus 
 allowing for concurrent, multiple-node database access. DEC DBMS 
 automatically recovers the database if a processor in the 
 VAXcluster configuration fails and provides optional after-image 
 journaling to further protect the integrity of the VAXcluster 
 database.

 DEC DBMS uses the OpenVMS distributed lock manager to synchronize
 clusterwide updates to the database root file, to initiate the 
 automatic recovery process when a node fails, and to coordinate 
 concurrent updates to the same database from processes running on
 different nodes. Properly configured VAXcluster environments offer
 higher availability to DEC DBMS database applications.

 Security Features

 DEC DBMS provides security on database objects via the security
 schema, on DBO commands via access control lists, on files via the
 OpenVMS file protection features, and on metadata in the 
 CDD/Repository dictionary via the CDD/Repository security features.

                                  7

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24

 Application programs access the database through a security schema.
 The security schema controls the access to areas, records, items, 
 and sets for each DML statement. The security schema for a given 
 user is controlled by the User Execution List (UEL), which is an 
 access control list. The UEL consists of user identification codes 
 (UIC) and the security schema through which they are allowed 
 access to the database. UELs are manipulated by the database 
 administrator through the use of the DBO/PERMIT_ USER command.

 Access to DBO commands is controlled by an access control list for
 each DBO command. The Command Authorization Lists (CALs) are 
 manipulated by the Database Administrator with the command
 DBO/GRANT_COMMAND. There is a CAL for every DBO command except 
 MONITOR, SHOW, and CONVERT. There is no CAL for the CDD commands.

 The DBCS runs in EXEC mode, securing its code and data structures 
 from the user's user mode applications.

 DEC DBMS uses standard OpenVMS file security (SYSTEM, OWNER, GROUP,
 WORLD) to protect database storage areas (files). An application
 program can only access records defined in its SUBSCHEMA. It is 
 the responsibility of the Database Administrator (DBA) to define 
 storage areas and realms plus set up file protection and access 
 control lists and security schemas to prevent unauthorized access
 to sensitive data.

 Metadata security and protection can be provided by preventing 
 access to metadata definitions stored in the CDD/Repository. The 
 CDD supports a hierarchical security system based on access control
 lists. It is the responsibility of the DBA to define CDD access 
 control lists to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive database
 definitions.

 Tracking and reporting of access to a secured database environment
 is provided through the DBO utility. Profiles for this security 

                                  8

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 tracking can be defined and activated for individual Security 
 Schemas, as well as securable database commands. The result is an
 audit trail of all secured database access for a particular data-
 base. 

 Utilities
 
 Interactive DML Utility (DBQ)

 Provides online procedural database access capabilities by interac-
 tively processing generic Data Manipulation Language (DML) state-
 ments.

 o  Provides DISPLAY, EDIT, IF-THEN-ELSE, INITIALIZE, LOOP, MACRO,
    MOVE, SET, SHOW, PRINT, and SHIFT statements

 o  Allows DCL commands from within the image

 The current position in a subschema is optionally displayed graphi-
 cally (on a VT100, VT200, or VT300 compatible terminal) as the user
 navigates through the database.

 Database Operator Utility (DBO)

 Provides the Database Administrator with all of the functions 
 required to create, maintain, delete, and control DEC DBMS 
 databases. It provides the following major features:

 o  Creating, initializing, and deleting databases.

 o  Loading and unloading databases.

 o  Restructuring databases; RECALCing records into expanded areas.


                                  9

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 o  Controlling access to DBO commands and to the database through
    ACLs and security schemas.

 o  Generating alarms for and/or records of security-relevant 
    activities.

 o  Reporting on DEC DBMS information in the
    CDD/Repository.

 o  Extracting DDL information from the CDD/Repository.

 o  Deleting DDL information in the CDD/Repository.

 o  Verifying the integrity of internal database structures on line.
    (Verification of the database is performed more efficiently on 
    lightly loaded or inactive databases.)

 o  Modifying the contents of corrupted database storage areas. 
    (This function is not recommended or required for normal use.)

 o  Producing formatted dumps of the database, AIJ, or RUJ files.

 o  Providing the spooling of after-image journal files by backing 
    them up to another device.

 o  Producing full and incremental database backup, on line and off 
    line.

 o  Restoring the database from backup and long-term journals.

 o  Controlling and displaying the status of the DBCS Monitor 
    process.

 o  Providing for orderly database shutdown on a single node or 
    across a VAXcluster.
                                 10

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24



 o  Creating static analysis of database space usage (DBO/ANALYZE)
    on line or off line.

 o  Online display or replay of DBMS statistics in the form of a 
    histogram, a columnar chart, a time plot on a single node basis
    for active databases, or areas (DBO/SHOW STATISTICS). 
    Statistics include: summary I/O, database verb, database index,
    virtual memory usage, summary locking, summary after-image 
    journal, summary page I/O, I/O stall time, stall messages, and
    transaction durations.

 o  Generating a User Work Area (UWA) for application programs using
    the callable interpretive interface.

 Database Restructuring Utility (DRU)

 Provides the ability to change many database characteristics 
 without unloading and reloading the database. It provides the 
 following major features:

 o  Removing areas from record WITHIN clauses.

 o  Changing set insertion and retention modes to AUTOMATIC 
    MANDATORY or AUTOMATIC FIXED.

 o  Specifying that duplicates are not allowed on sorted sets.

 o  Changing the sort key and sort order on sorted sets.

 o  Changing set ORDER and MODE clauses.

 o  Changing B-tree node size, resetting the B-tree fill factor, 
    and, for SYSTEM-owned set, changing the B-tree location.

                                  11

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24



 o  Removing items from the database that are no longer needed.

 o  Modifying the data type and data length of items already 
    existing in the database.

 Product Assistance Facilities

 DEC DBMS provides extensive help facilities for the interactive DML
 utility (DBQ), the DML precompiler(DML), the Database Operator 
 utility (DBO), and the DDL compiler. The help files contain all 
 necessary information on the use of each of these facilities.

 DEC DATATRIEVE provides an optional interface to DEC DBMS database 
 structures. This provides the DEC DBMS user with a high-level, 
 nonprocedural query and report generating facility.

 Components

 DDL Compiler (DDL) - Used by the Database Administrator (DBA) to 
 create and maintain database structure definitions including 
 records, sets, areas, and realms in the CDD/Repository. It compiles
 the schema, subschema, storage schema, and security schema DDLs, 
 and generates default subschemas, storage schemas, and security 
 schemas. The OpenVMS DCL command "DDL" invokes the compiler.

 Database Control System (DBCS) - Controls access to DEC DBMS 
 databases. The DBCS is a shareable image that is linked with any 
 application program that accesses the database.

 FORTRAN DML Preprocessor (FDML) - Preprocesses FORTRAN DML applica-
 tion programs. It translates FORTRAN DML statements into FORTRAN 
 calls to the DBCS and data definition statements and passes the 
 complete FORTRAN source program to the DEC Fortran Compiler.

                                  12

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24



 Generic DML Preprocessor - Preprocesses application programs 
 written in BASIC, BLISS, C, DIBOL, Pascal, PL/I, and VAX Ada. It 
 converts DML statements into calls to the DBCS and passes the 
 complete source program to the host language compiler.

 Database Monitor Process - Controls all interprocess database 
 communication and recovery.

 Database Recovery Process (DBR) - Provides the database recovery 
 capability.

 Interactive DML utility (DBQ) - Provides interactive DML access to
 any DEC DBMS database.
 Database Operator utility (DBO) - Used by the DBA to create, 
 maintain, delete, and control all DEC DBMS databases. The OpenVMS 
 DCL command "DBO" invokes the utility.

 Database Restructuring Utility (DRU) - Enables the DBA to make 
 user-data dependent changes to the database.

 DBMSERVER - Provides access to local databases for remote DECnet 
 users.

 Installation Verification Procedures (IVP) - Verifies the correct 
 in stallation of all DEC DBMS components and builds the PARTS 
 database that is used in examples throughout the documentation.

 Demonstration (DEMO) - A demonstration package that uses the PARTS
 database.

 Limits and Parameters

 o  Maximum length of a sort key is 255 bytes.

                                  13

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24




 o  Maximum number of sort key items is limited by the total sort 
    key length.

 o  Maximum length of a calc key is 32K bytes.

 o  Maximum number of calc key items is limited by the total calc 
    key length.

 o  Maximum length of database object name is 31 bytes.

 o  Other schema size (complexity) parameters are limited by machine
    address space and disk space.

 o  Minimum database page size is 512 bytes.

 o  Maximum database page size is 32K bytes.

 o  Maximum number of pages per area is 2**32 pages.

 o  Maximum number of areas (files) per database is 32K files (Open-
    VMS resources and typical SYSGEN parameters will constrain this
    to be much lower).
 o  Maximum length of a storage record, including DBMS overhead, is
    32K bytes.

 o  Minimum interval between SPAM pages is 256 pages.

 o  Maximum interval between SPAM pages is 64K pages.

 o  Maximum number of concurrent users per database is 2,032 (not 
    all database maintenance functions can be performed efficiently 
    with large numbers of active users).

                                  14

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24



 Application Portability

 DEC DBMS DML and FDML applications may be ported from the OpenVMS 
 VAX to OpenVMS AXP by recompiling and relinking the programs using
 DEC DBMS for OpenVMS AXP and the OpenVMS AXP implementation of the
 appropriate language compiler(s). Differences in the 3GL compiler 
 version or implementation may make minor changes to the source code
 necessary. This approach assumes that the source code is available
 and an equivalent 3GL compiler is available for use on the OpenVMS
 AXP Operating System.

 In cases where either the source code or the required compiler is 
 not available but the OpenVMS VAX object code for the application
 is available, the DECmigrate product may be used to port the appli-
 cation to the OpenVMS AXP Operating System. This product translates
 OpenVMS VAX application images for use under OpenVMS AXP. DML 
 applications that will be processed using DECmigrate must first be
 relinked under DEC DBMS for OpenVMS VAX with the DECmigrate support
 library provided with the DEC DBMS for OpenVMS VAX software 
 distribution.

 Optional DEC DBMS Run-Time Only Environment

 A Run-Time Only version of DEC DBMS is available. It provides all 
 features and facilities except the DDL compiler, the FORTRAN Data
 Manipulation Language (FDML) preprocessor, and the Generic DML 
 preprocessor. The purpose of the Run-Time Only version is to
 support the execution of applications on one machine that have been
 developed on other machines using the development version of the 
 product. Program development is not supported under the Run-Time 
 Only version.



                                  15

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 CONFORMANCE TO STANDARDS

 DEC DBMS is based upon the March, 1981 Working Document of the ANSI
 Data Definition Language Committee.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 25.48.24-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 OpenVMS VAX Operating System
 CDD/Repository for OpenVMS VAX

 Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
 versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.48.24-x).

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Full Development Option:

 ClusterWide[TM] Software Licenses: QL-899A*-**
 Personal Use Software License: QL-899AA-2B
 Software Media: QA-899A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-899AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-899A*-**








                                  16

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 Run-Time Only Option:

 ClusterWide Software Licenses: QL-915A*-**
 Concurrent Use Software License: QL-915AA-3B
 Software Media: QA-915A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-915AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-915A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on licenses, 
    services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of 
 Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For
 more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies,
 Contact your local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

 ClusterWide licensing is available for both the Full Development 
 and Run-time Only options of this layered product. Personal Use 
 licensing is available for the Full Development option and 
 Concurrent Use licensing is available for the Run-Time Only option.

 ClusterWide licenses are allocated on the basis of the total CPU 
 capacity of the processor or portion of the VAXcluster configura-
 tion on which the layered product is installed. Each Personal Use 
 license allows one identified individual to use the layered 
 product. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at 
 a time to use the layered product.

                                  17

 



 DEC DBMS Version 5.1 for OpenVMS VAX                  SPD 25.48.24


 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 
 The Full Development and Run-Time Only licenses can be used concur-
 rently on the same system or cluster.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to
 the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description 
 (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the 
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System documentation set.

 For more information on Digital's licensing policies, contact your 
 local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more 
 information, contact your local Digital office.

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the
 purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
 Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

 [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CDD/Repository, ClusterWide DBMS, DEC,
      DECnet, Digital, OpenVMS, VAX, VAX Ada, VAX COBOL, DATATRIEVE,
      DEC Fortran, VAXcluster, VT100 and VT300 are trademarks of
      Digital Equipment Corporation.






 

                                  18
