 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,   SPD
           31.27.01                Version 1.1

           DESCRIPTION

           DECplan is an integrated time and project management tool
           designed to help users plan, track, schedule, and report on
           projects and meetings. DECplan is a client/server, DECwindows-
           based tool that provides a server and two clients, the DEC-
           plan client and the DECplan Time Manager client. DECplan pro-
           vides a superset of the DECplan Time Manager functionality
           (See SPD 33.09.xx for details on DECplan.) The DECplan server
           manages a single DECplan database of information delineated
           by a series of planners; project, personal, equipment, and
           locations. Multiple DECplan or DECplan Time Manager clients
           can connect to a single server. These clients, when connected
           to the DECplan server, allow users to share project infor-
           mation stored in a common database, schedule meetings, and
           exchange information.

           DECplan Time Manager Client Features

           DECplan Time Manager is a subset of DECplan. All features
           listed here are included with DECplan.

           Day, Month, and Year Views

           o  Users reserve time and schedule tasks in their Time Man-
              ager Day view, which DECplan then uses to schedule and
              coordinate time across planners.

           o  A user can view the calendar in daily, monthly, or yearly
              views.

                                    DIGITAL            November 1991

                                                         AE-PJ39C-TE

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1

           o  The DECplan server scans the individual contributor's Time
              Manager calendar entries looking for available time to
              schedule task assignments or meetings.

           Meeting Scheduling, Free Time Scans

           o  Users can set up meetings with other DECplan or DECplan
              Time Manager users by selecting duration of meeting, agenda,
              location, and performing a free time scan of those users'
              calendars to pick an agreeable meeting time.

           o  Users can also use distribution lists for groups or net-
              work mail addresses (sent only to non-DECplan users) to
              book meetings and conference rooms and send out agendas.

           o  Meetings can be repeatable in various intervals, for ex-
              ample, daily, bi-weekly, or monthly, or they can be in-
              dividually scheduled.

           Goals Tracking

           o  Users can define goals, associate a series of tasks re-
              quired to achieve the goal, set a priority and status for
              goals, and finally track the goal to completion using DEC-
              plan Time Manager.

           o  Users have the ability to modify goals as time progresses
              and priorities change.

           Table Views

           o  Time Manager users access the task table as a means to
              store action items and to-do lists. These tasks can be
              personal items or tasks negotiated and delegated as part
              of a task by the project manager using DECplan.

           o  The Time Manager users can view and manipulate their own
              data and can customize table rows and columns easily.



                                       2

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1

           Alarms

           o  Users can set alarms or reminders on tasks and meetings
              and can select from a range of icons to depict graphi-
              cally the activity in their daily calendar view or task
              table views.

           o  Alarms are repeatable for successive meetings and only
              need to be set once.

           Negotiation

           o  DECplan provides for negotiation of task assignments, time
              charges, and meeting assignments between two individu-
              als: the originator and the responder. This feature en-
              ables the originator to propose assignments to other users
              (responders). The responder has the option of accepting,
              rejecting or negotiating the assignment and providing a
              message in response to the proposal. Once an assignment
              is accepted, a copy of the original assignment is stored
              in the responder's planner.

           o  DECplan also provides a mandate operation for situations
              where negotiation of an assignment is not desirable or
              appropriate.

           Time Charges

           o  Users can report work completed in their day view or from
              a table view by creating a Time Charge. Time Charges are
              rolled up into the expended effort of a task, thus show-
              ing progress made against that task. The individual who
              is updating status in this manner using Time Manager au-
              tomatically updates the DECplan project management views.

           o  Users may either negotiate time charges, as described above,
              or request that the DECplan server periodically collect
              and post time changes.



                                       3

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1

           Keywords, Sort, Filters

           o  DECplan keywords provide users with a user-defined al-
              phanumeric string to associate with tasks or other ob-
              jects in the database. Keywords can be used for a fil-
              tering mechanism in views and reports.

           o  The sort feature is consistent across the tabular views
              and provides ascending or descending sorts, and sorts in
              groupings.

           o  Filtering allows users to selectively pull any data from
              the database for display in the table views.

           o  The user can also build a selection expression filter to
              access and display data stored in one or more project plan-
              ners, given appropriate security privileges.

           Export/Import Feature

           o  DECplan allows users to import data using the DTIF CDA
              interchange format. Several CDA Extended converters ex-
              ist to allow data transformation from a non-DTIF format
              to DTIF, which can then be imported into the DECplan database.

           o  Users can also export an entire DECplan planner in DTIF
              format to other applications that accept DTIF, like DECde-
              cision. The exported planner can also be reimported into
              DECplan across servers. If a planner DTIF is edited in
              these applications, that file cannot be imported back into
              DECplan.

           o  DECplan exports graphical and tabular views and reports
              in DDIF format, which is consistent with the data for-
              mat accepted by other DECwindows applications like DECwrite,
              DECwindows Mail, and DECpresent.





                                       4

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1

           Online Help

           o  In addition to the above features, DECplan provides con-
              text sensitive online Help to provide users with an un-
              derstanding of how to use DECplan and Time Manager.

           Conversion Utilities

           o  DECplan Time Manager provides conversion utility for DECwin-
              dows Calendar users to convert their personal calendar
              database to the DECplan database.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 31.27.01-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For the DECplan Time Manager Client:

           For Workstations Running DECwindows:

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS DECwindows

           o  DECplan Server for VMS

           The DECplan Time Manager client must have a DECplan server
           installed to run. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA
           31.27.01-x) for availability and required versions of pre-
           requisite/optional software and for information regarding
           components of VMS DECwindows.

           For Personal Computers Running PATHWORKS Client Software

           o  PATHWORKS for VMS



                                       5

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1

           DECplan displays on all PCs supported by the PATHWORKS for
           VMS. In order to operate the DECplan or DECplan Time Man-
           ager DECwindows client interface efficiently on the PC, it
           must be either a 386- or 486-based PC with a minimum of 4MB
           of memory.

           Refer to PATHWORKS for VMS (SPD 30.50.xx) if the PATHWORKS
           for DOS software is to be used in a server/client environ-
           ment, PATHWORKS for OS/2 server software (SPD 55.24.xx) if
           the PATHWORKS for DOS software is to be used in a server/client
           environment, VAXmate Services for MS-DOS (SPD 55.09.xx) if
           the PATHWORKS for DOS software is to be used in a server/client
           environment.

           Support for the VMS Operating System is provided by PATH-
           WORKS for VMS (SPD 30.50.xx). Support for the PC DECwindows
           Display Facility requires VMS DECwindows Software or ULTRIX
           Worksystem Software.

           The PC DECwindows Display Facility requires additional ex-
           tended memory over and above the conventional, EMS, XMS mem-
           ory required by other PATHWORKS components.

           A minimum of 750KB of system memory must be free and acces-
           sible to the PC DECwindows Display Facility after config-
           uring the system. This memory may be made up of free con-
           ventional and extended memory.

           Depending on the number of DECwindows applications being dis-
           played and the memory requirements of each application, more
           memory may be required on the PC. Therefore, the user should
           test these types of configurations with PC DECwindows Dis-
           play Facility prior to production use.

           Because the PC DECwindows Display Facility includes its own
           extended memory manager on 80386 PCs, it will conflict with
           expanded memory managers that do not support Virtual Con-
           trol Program Interface (VCPI). The PC DECwindows Display Fa-
           cility may also conflict with other drivers using extended
           memory, such as disk caching programs and RAM drives, if their

                                       6

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1

           presence cannot be detected by the PC DECwindows extended
           memory manager.

           DECwindows and X applications that do not take into account
           the PC hardware characteristics (such as screen resolution,
           screen aspect ratios, keyboard layouts, and number of mouse
           buttons) may not function optimally with a PC as a display
           server.

           In addition to the supported VMS and ULTRIX DECwindows win-
           dow managers, Digital provides a VMS window manager designed
           specifically for PC screens that allows the user to move win-
           dows off the screen. The DECplan Time Manager client will
           check the screen size and alter its views and format to fit
           on the smaller PC screen.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-XC8A*-**
           Software Media: QA-YPB**-**
           Software Documentation: QA-XC8AA-GZ (DECplan
              Time Manager only)
           Software Documentation: QA-YPBAA-GZ (DECplan
              and DECplan Time Manager client)
           Software Product Services: QT-XC8A*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Mananagement Facility Support



                                       7

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on a Personal
           Use basis.

           Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual
           to use DECplan Client or the DECplan Time Manager Client.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®   MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpo-
               ration.

           ®   OS/2 is a registered trademark of International
               Business Machines Corporation.

           ®   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.





                                       8

 



           DECplan Time Manager Client for VMS,        SPD 31.27.01
           Version 1.1


           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECdecision, DECnet, DEC-
               plan, DECpresent, DECstation, DECsystem, DECwindows,
               DECwrite, MicroVAX, PATHWORKS, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAX-
               cluster, VAXft, VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXstation, and
               VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.



































                                       9
