 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  MUXserver 320/380 Remote Terminal Server, Version 1.0
 SPD 32.94.00

 DESCRIPTION

 The MUXserver 320/380 Remote Terminal Server is a wide area terminal
 switch for Ethernet Local Area Networks. It has been designed to sup-
 port interactive asynchronous terminal users, using data compression,
 background priority, and statistical multiplexing to optimize the net-
 work performance.

 When used in conjunction with a DECmux 300, the MUXserver 320/380 pro-
 vides concurrent Local Area Transport (LAT) and INTERNET (Telnet/TCP
 /IP) support to enable connectivity to host systems that utilize LAT
 or INTERNET protocols. The INTERNET protocol suite is used to connect
 to UNIX[R] host systems and other host systems that support the INTER-
 NET protocol suite. In general, the MUXserver 320/380/DECmux 300 pro-
 vides the same terminal services to a remote workgroup as the DECserver
 products give to local users.

 MUXserver 320/380 Main Features:

 o  LAT protocol

 o  INTERNET protocols (Telnet/TCP/IP)

 o  Statistical multiplexing and data compression

 o  Background transfer ports

 o  Optimized for remote echo terminals

 o  Multiple sessions

 o  Host load balancing (LAT only)

 o  Connection queuing (LAT only)

                               DIGITAL                 February 1992

                                                         AE-PESGA-TE

 

 o  Printer support

 o  Data transparency control

 o  Security

 o  Online Help

 o  Remote server management using DECnet, LAT, or Telnet

 MUXserver 320

 o  128 concurrent sessions

 o  32 concurrent users

 o  1 link: 2,400 bps, up to 64 kbps, 1 link: 2,400 bps, up to 19.2 kbps

 o  6 remote stations, each with up to 32 devices

 MUXserver 380

 o  512 concurrent sessions

 o  128 concurrent users

 o  2 links: 2,400 bps, up to 64 kbps, 6 links: 2,400 bps, up to 19.2
    kbps

 o  16 remote stations, each with up to 32 devices

 Features

 Terminal Connection Management

 Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical con-
 nection, called a session, to any LAT service node on the same Eth-
 ernet LAN or INTERNET host on the same Ethernet LAN or via an INTER-
 NET gateway. This connection makes the terminal appear as if it were
 physically connected to the LAT service node or INTERNET host, and the
 terminal user can use standard system utilities and applications sup-
 ported by that system. Each terminal connected to the DECmux 300 re-
 mote terminal multiplexer can connect to the same or a different LAT
 service node or INTERNET host.

                                  2

 

 Multiple Sessions

 The MUXserver 320/380 allows each user to establish and maintain up
 to eight sessions to one or more service nodes or INTERNET hosts, up
 to a maximum of 128 sessions per MUXserver 320, 512 sessions per MUXserver
 380. Only one session per user can be active at a time. Through sim-
 ple switching commands, the user can access the different sessions with-
 out repeating a login dialogue each time. Some operating systems may
 impose limits on the number of LAT or Telnet sessions such a host will
 support.

 Session Management Terminals

 The MUXserver 320/380 allows direct communication with devices that
 support the Terminal Device/Session Management Protocol (TD/SMP) pro-
 tocol. This protocol provides the ability for the attached device to
 maintain screen and keyboard context for multiple LAT sessions.

 Remote Access Sessions

 The MUXserver 320/380 allows sessions to be established by remote LAT
 service nodes or INTERNET hosts to asynchronous devices. Such remote
 access sessions are useful for printers and asynchronous ASCII hosts.

 Access Contention

 A fully configured MUXserver 320/380 network can provide physical con-
 nections for 512 terminals. The MUXserver 320 will provide access to
 the first 32 users on a first-come-first-served basis. The MUXserver
 380 will provide access to the first 128 users on a first-come-first-
 served basis. Permanent logical connections can be assigned to spe-
 cific ports to ensure access at all times. When a logical connection
 is not available, a status message is relayed to the port requiring
 access.

 Data Transparency




                                  3

 

 Data is normally passed transparently between the port on the DECmux
 300 and the current session's associated LAT service node or INTER-
 NET host. Exceptions to this are:

 o  If XON/XOFF flow control is specified for the port, these charac-
    ters are interpreted by the DECmux 300.

 o  Certain characters can be specified as session switch characters.
    When these are input from the port, they are interpreted by the MUXserver
    320/380 and not passed to the LAT service node or INTERNET host.

 o  When using Telnet, certain characters can be specified as invok-
    ing certain Telnet functions. When these are input from the port,
    they are interpreted by the MUXserver 320/380 and not passed to the
    INTERNET host.

 The data transparency can be controlled on a session-by-session ba-
 sis:

 o  Session switch characters can be disabled and thus passed to the
    LAT service node or INTERNET host. For LAT sessions, that is re-
    ferred to as Pass-Through mode and can be controlled by the port
    user or the LAT service node. For Telnet, switch characters are dis-
    abled if the session is in Binary mode, which can be controlled by
    the port user or the INTERNET host. This is appropriate for ASCII
    file transfers from/to Personal Computers.

 o  XON/XOFF flow control characters can be disabled. For LAT sessions,
    that is referred to as Pass-All mode and can be controlled by the
    port user or the LAT service node. For Telnet, XON/XOFF characters
    are disabled if the session is in Binary mode, which can be con-
    trolled by the port user or the INTERNET host. This is appropri-
    ate for binary data file transfers from/to Personal Computers.

 o  Telnet request characters can be disabled at the request of the port
    user. They are also disabled if the Telnet session is in Binary mode,
    which can be controlled by the port user or the INTERNET host.

 Network Configurations

                                  4

 

 The MUXserver 320/380 network is built from two basic options. The MUXserver
 320/380, which connects to the Ethernet, and the remote unit. Supported
 remote units are the DECmux 308, 316, and 332.

 Synchronous Links

 Each MUXserver 320 can support up to two synchronous communications
 lines, and each line can support up to three DECmux 300s. The maxi-
 mum number of DECmux 300s that can be connected is limited to six. The
 maximum aggregate synchronous link bandwidth is 64 kbps full duplex.

 Each MUXserver 380 can support up to eight synchronous communications
 lines, and each line can support up to three DECmux 300s. The maxi-
 mum number of DECmux 300s that can be connected is limited to sixteen.
 The maximum aggregate synchronous link bandwidth is 128 kbps full du-
 plex.

 The MUXserver 320/380 synchronous links use LAPB data link protocol
 and can be connected using the following physical link options. Net-
 work configuration, link types, and link speeds are automatically con-
 figured when the correct cables are used.

 o  EIA 232-D/CCITT V.28 at 2.4K, up to 19.2K bits per second

 o  CCITT X.21 bis/CCITT V.35 at 48K, up to 64K bits per second

 o  EIA RS-449/CCITT V.36, up to 64K bits per second

 o  CCITT X.21, leased line only, up to 64K bits per second

 o  EIA RS-422, up to 64K bits per second

 The MUXserver 320/380 EIA RS-422 synchronous link can be used to con-
 nect two units together. Clocking signals are supplied by the MUXserver.
 Distances up to 1,200 meters or 4,000 feet are supported on suitable
 cable installations.

 The MUXserver 320/380 network is designed to operate over wide area
 network links that provide no significant delay and a transparent data
 path. Synchronous composite links operating over multiplexing equip-
 ment or satellite links are not supported.

                                  5

 

 Ethernet LAN Interconnect

 The MUXserver 320/380 provides both ThinWire and standard Thickwire
 Ethernet V2.0/IEEE 802.3 ports. Selection is by an accessible push-
 button switch.

 DECmux 308/316/332

 The DECmux 300 requires a synchronous connection to a MUXserver 3**
 for proper operation.

 The DECmux units are available in the following configurations:

 o  Eight EIA 232-D/CCITT V.24 ports with modem control (DECmux 308)

 o  Sixteen EIA 232-D/CCITT V.24 ports with modem control (DECmux 316)

 o  Sixteen DEC423 ports, data leads only (DECmux 316-B)

 o  Thirty-two DEC423 ports, data leads only (DECmux 332)

 The eight and sixteen port units are field upgradable using the fol-
 lowing upgrade panels kits. After installation, the new configuration
 is automatically reconfigured and the DECmux is initialized to fac-
 tory default settings.

 o  Eight EIA 232-D/CCITT V.24 ports with modem control

 o  Sixteen DEC423 ports, data leads only

 The DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports are compatible with Digital Equipment
 Corporation's family of modems and with Bell 100- and 200-series modems
 and their equivalents.

 MUXserver 300 Compatibility

 DECmux 300s previously used with a MUXserver 300 can be migrated to
 a MUXserver 380 without change. DECmux 300s used with a MUXserver 320
 /380 can be returned to use with a MUXserver 300, but some configu-
 ration information will not be used by the MUXserver 300.

 Asynchronous Device Support

                                  6

 

 The MUXserver 320/380 software supports the simultaneous operation of
 asynchronous devices at speeds from 75 bps to 19.2K bps. The software
 also supports:

 o  Full modem control support (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports only)

 o  Data leads only support (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D and DEC423 ports)

 o  XON/XOFF flow control, except when session transparency prevents
    its use

 o  CTS/RTS or DSR/DTR flow control (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports only)

 o  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

 o  Modem fallback features (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports only)

 o  Automatic line speed detection (equal receive and transmit speed
    only)

 o  Ability to pass break character and error notification

 o  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP

 Port Access

 A port on a DECmux 300 connected to a MUXserver 320/380 can be set up
 in different ways depending on the device attached to the port and its
 intended use.

 o  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the
    device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to
    CONNECT to LAT services. This type of access is also used for dial-
    in modems.

 o  Access Remote - Designed for applications-driven devices such as
    asynchronous printers that are allocated by a service node process.
    This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by mul-
    tiple service nodes. This type of access is also used for connec-
    tions to dial-out modems and Asynchronous ASCII host systems.

 o  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal computers
    or printers with keyboards) that require both Local and Remote ac-
    cess.

                                  7

 

 o  Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable the
    use of a port.

 Asynchronous Printer Support

 The MUXserver 320/380 and DECmux 300 can be used to provide logical
 connections to printers that are asynchronous devices as previously
 described. Access is possible both from LAT service nodes and INTER-
 NET hosts. Printers that support XON/XOFF, ASCII standards and EIA 232-
 D/CCITT V.24/V.28 interfaces can be connected to the DECmux 300. It
 is strongly recommended that printers supporting modem control sig-
 nals be used, in which case connections will not be established to print-
 ers where modem control signals are not present, e.g., the printer is
 switched off.

 The server manager can associate a LAT service name or a Telnet Lis-
 tener with individual ports or groups of ports that connect to a printer(s).
 Alternatively, using the LAT protocol, a service node can request a
 connection to a named port that connects to a printer.

 Asynchronous ASCII Host Support

 The MUXserver 320/380 and DECmux 300 can be used to provide logical
 terminal connections to hosts that do not implement the LAT or INTER-
 NET protocols. In this type of configuration, the server becomes the
 Ethernet connection and protocol support for these hosts. This expands
 the network accessibility to include hosts directly connected to the
 same Ethernet as the MUXserver and hosts connected via a DECserver ter-
 minal server port.

 A host that supports XON/XOFF, ASCII standards, and EIA 232-D/CCITT
 V.24/V.28 interfaces can be connected to the DECmux 300. This provides
 the terminal user with a transparent connection to the host. It is strongly
 recommended that server port and host side port utilize modem control
 signals to signal the host automatically upon session disconnection.





                                  8

 

 In this configuration, there is a one-to-one correspondence between
 the port on a DECmux 300 and the connection on the host. The server
 manager can associate the LAT service name or Telnet Listener with in-
 dividual ports or groups of ports that connect the host interface to
 the server.

 LAT Protocol

 The MUXserver 320/380 uses the Digital Local Area Transport (LAT V5.2)
 protocol to communicate with hosts on the same Ethernet. This proto-
 col is specially optimized for remote echo terminal traffic over a LAN.

 Services

 A LAT service node can have one or more services that are offered to
 MUXserver 320/380 network users. Services and nodes are identified by
 name. Users always connect to services, not to nodes, although often
 one of the service names will be the node name.

 In a VAXcluster environment, the MUXserver 320/380 sees each VAXclus-
 ter on the Ethernet as a collection of LAT service nodes offering a
 common service. Each cluster node can also offer a service whose name
 is equivalent to its node name. In this case, a terminal user can con-
 nect either to the cluster service or a service associated with a par-
 ticular cluster node.

 Load Balancing

 When a connection is made to a LAT service, the actual node for the
 connection is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is the pro-
 cess the server uses when more than one node offers the same service.
 Service nodes do not have to be configured in a cluster in order for
 load balancing to be used. Service nodes with the same names can be
 running different operating systems. Using the load balancing process,
 the server connects to the node with the highest rating for the ser-
 vice desired. This rating is based on the current loading on the nodes
 that offer the service.

 Automatic Session Failover

                                  9

 

 If a LAT service is available on two or more service nodes and a con-
 nection to a service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user
 to another service node offering the same service. The user's context
 at the time of failure is not automatically restored, and login to the
 new service is required. This feature is supported for LAT connections
 only.

 Groups

 Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one
 or more groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 0 - 255.
 Groups allow an easy means of subdividing the network into what ap-
 pears to be many smaller networks. A terminal user is only aware of
 the services that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).

 The server manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a ter-
 minal is a member. The authorized groups define the set of services
 the user is allowed to access. In addition, a user can further restrict
 access to services by disabling some of the authorized groups using
 a non-privileged group command. The user-settable group codes are a
 subset of the authorized groups.

 Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view
 is mainly for user convenience and, although it also provides a form
 of security, it is not intended to be the primary form of access au-
 thorization or system security for a node. Groups apply only to LAT
 connections.

 Outbound Connection Queues

 If a terminal user requests a connection to a service and the requested
 service is currently in use, the terminal server users can opt to have
 the connection requested queued to the remote service. This feature
 will happen automatically whenever a connection fails for this rea-
 son if the user's port has been appropriately configured and the ser-
 vice node is queuable. The connection request is queued at the ser-
 vice node end and is processed first-in/first-out until such time as
 the user's connection request can be completed. This feature assists
 in the fair management of limited network resources. Once queued for

                                 10

 

 connection, the user also has the option to cancel the queue entry and
 proceed with other sessions.

 Local Services

 The MUXserver 320/380 can offer DECmux 300 ports as services. A named
 service can be associated with one or more DECmux 300 ports, either
 on the same or multiple DECmux 300s. The rating of the service reflects
 the proportion of ports currently available. If a request is received
 for a connection to a service and all ports associated with that ser-
 vice are being used, the MUXserver 320/380 can offer a queuing facil-
 ity for incoming connect requests, with connections being granted on
 a first-come-first-served basis.

 INTERNET Protocols (TELNET/TCP/IP)

 The INTERNET protocol suite was developed for use on the Arpanet and
 is specified by US Defense Data Network (DDN) Request for Comments (RFCs).
 The INTERNET protocols supported by the MUXserver 320/380 are:

 o  INTERNET Protocol (IP) - RFC 791

 o  INTERNET Control Message Protocol (ICMP) - RFC 792

 o  Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) - RFC 826

 o  Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) - RFC 793

 o  User Datagram Protocol (UDP) - RFC 768 (used by Domain Name Ser-
    vices)

 o  Domain Name Services (DNS) - RFCs 1034, 1035 and 1101

 o  Telnet - RFC 854

 o  Telnet Options - RFCs 855 and 861

 Telnet Options Supported:

 o  Status - RFC 859

 o  End of record - RFC 885

 o  Toggle flow control - RFC 1080

                                 11

 

 o  Echo - RFC 857

 o  Timing mark - RFC 860

 o  Linemode - RFC 1116

 o  Binary - RFC 856

 o  Suppress go ahead - RFCs 854 and 858

 o  Terminal type - RFC 1091

 o  Subnet Addressing - RFC 950

 Telnet Client

 Telnet client provides the ability to connect to any remote TCP port
 at an INTERNET address on a local area network (LAN) or a wide area
 network (WAN). Telnet client allows the user to specify a remote com-
 puter by INTERNET address as well as by domain name. The MUXserver 320
 /380 maintains a translation table of domain names containing either
 or both domain names entered by the server manager or learned from Do-
 main Name Servers on the INTERNET.

 The port user can control characteristics of a Telnet session on a session-
 by-session basis. Profiles provide quick access to standard charac-
 teristics. Telnet character, line, and binary profiles are supported.

 Telnet Server

 Telnet server provides the ability to accept connection requests from
 INTERNET hosts to MUXserver 320/380 ports with attached asynchronous
 devices such as printers or host systems. One or more ports can be as-
 sociated with a particular Telnet Listener port number. Ports can be
 associated with both Telnet Listeners and with LAT local services. Al-
 ternatively, a LAT service name can be associated with a Telnet Lis-
 tener port number, in which case a connection to that Telnet Listener
 port number will be interpreted as a connection to the specified LAT
 service. Queuing of connection requests is not supported via Telnet.

 User Interface:

 Welcome Identification

                                 12

 

 The MUXserver 320/380 server standard welcome banner that includes ter-
 minal server type, version number, internal baselevel, and protocol
 version number is issued whenever a user successfully logs in to the
 server. The server will also print a server-manager settable identi-
 fication string. This can be useful for automatic server identifica-
 tion or for small daily messages used for communication with the ter-
 minal server users.

 Local Mode and Service Mode

 For the most part, the environment provided by the MUXserver/DECmux
 300 is identical to that the user would experience if attached directly
 to the service node. When operating in this mode, the user is said to
 be in Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during connection establish-
 ment, the user interacts directly with the MUXserver/DECmux 300. When
 operating in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

 In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by MUXserver
 /DECmux 300 as commands to be performed by the server. The default prompt
 can be set by the manager.

 In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected
 service node or INTERNET host with several exceptions. One exception,
 called the local switch character, allows the user to enter Local Mode
 from Service Mode. The BREAK key can also be used for this function.
 Other exceptions, called the forward and backward switch characters,
 allow the user to switch between sessions without the need to enter
 Local Mode. The switch characters are disabled by default but can be
 enabled by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted
 locally, but flow control using these characters can be disabled.

 Autoconnection

 Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user ter-
 minal to a service node when connection failures occur or upon user
 login to the server. In conjunction with this function, a dedicated
 or preferred service can be specified for each terminal user.



                                 13

 

 If a dedicated service is specified, the MUXserver 320/380 will at-
 tempt to connect to that service when a character is typed on the ter-
 minal keyboard or when an existing connection fails. In dedicated ser-
 vice mode, only one session is available. As this mode is designed to
 simulate a direct terminal connection, no local mode commands or mes-
 sages are available to the terminal user. Ports with dedicated ser-
 vice can be logged out of the server automatically when the user logs
 out of the service node.

 If a preferred service is specified, the MUXserver 320/380 will at-
 tempt to connect to that service as with the dedicated service mode
 of operation. However, the terminal user can enter local mode and es-
 tablish other sessions.

 Online HELP Facility

 A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP
 command provides information on the correct syntax and details about
 each command. In addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users
 to learn quickly the basics of MUXserver 320/380 operation. Tutorial
 HELP can be entered upon logging in to the server.

 Directory Service

 Any MUXserver 320/380 user can obtain a directory of LAT services avail-
 able to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the
 user's port is not authorized will not be displayed. Services apply
 only to LAT connections. The domain names of known INTERNET hosts can
 also be obtained using a SHOW INTERNET HOST command.

 Security

 The MUXserver 320/380 provides functions that enhance security fea-
 tures already available in the service nodes. These functions can be
 enabled as required by the server manager.

 o  Port login password.



                                 14

 

 o  Port lock password. This allows the user to leave sessions running
    at the terminal without fear of security violations. When a ter-
    minal is locked, all input from the terminal is ignored until the
    lock password is re-entered.

 o  Secure Port allows a user to change only dynamic settings on that
    port.

 o  Nonprivileged User can change dynamic and permanent settings on that
    port.

 o  Privileged User can change all settings. This mode is password pro-
    tected.

 o  Access to a local service can require a specified password to be
    supplied.

 o  Certain port users can be restricted from viewing available ser-
    vices (Limited View).

 o  Certain ports can be prevented from having their physical settings
    altered by a remote LAT service node or INTERNET host (Remote Mod-
    ification).

 Server Management

 The principle means of managing the MUXserver 320/380 is by using the
 Local Mode commands accessible via any Local or Dynamic access port,
 the console port, or a remote management facility.

 Console Port

 The MUXserver 320/380 console port can accept directly connected asyn-
 chronous terminals with the following characteristics:

 o  DEC423 asynchronous start/stop transmission, having 8 data bits,
    1 start bit, 1 stop bit, and no parity

 o  Full duplex with XON/XOFF flow control

 o  Speed selectable from one of the following: 300, 600, 1,200, 2,400,
    4,800, 9,600 baud, or AUTOBAUD

                                 15

 

 Remote Server Management

 The MUXserver 320/380 implements the console carrier feature, which
 enables access to local mode from a Phase IV or Phase V DECnet host
 on the same LAN. With the exception of remote console port configu-
 ration, the entire local mode user interface is accessible to the re-
 mote console carrier user. This includes the privileged commands if
 the user knows the server's privileged password. This capability al-
 lows centralized server management and remote server diagnosis.

 The MUXserver 320/380 also enables access to local mode using the LAT
 or Telnet protocols. These capabilities allow centralized server man-
 agement from another terminal server or from an INTERNET host.

 Server Characteristics

 The Server Manager in privileged mode can set up server identifica-
 tion information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the op-
 erating characteristics of the server. The Server Manager can also as-
 sign service names to groups of one or more ports. INTERNET charac-
 teristics such as INTERNET address and subnet mask can be modified and
 displayed.

 The MUXserver 320/380 and DECmux 300 maintain permanent characteris-
 tics in non-volatile memory which is retained even when the power is
 disconnected. Permanent characteristics are maintained for service and
 server parameters as well as per-port parameters. Permanent charac-
 teristics can be reset to factory defaults by pressing the reset but-
 ton on the hardware unit while plugging in the power cord.

 Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be
 displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively from their
 terminal. Many of the characteristics can be set up by the user, but
 certain characteristics are privileged and can only be changed by the
 Server Manager.

 Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed, char-
 acter size, group codes, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, mo-
 dem, and password protection.

                                 16

 

 Troubleshooting

 A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by loop-
 ing messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware in-
 terface at the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can ex-
 ecute a command to transmit test data to their terminal, or the server
 manager can send test data to any terminal. A privileged user can also
 diagnose synchronous line problems by looping test messages between
 adjacent MUXserver 320/380 and DECmux 300 units.

 The capability also exists for the server manager to test a service
 connection by sending data to the service node and back again. At the
 service node, the data can be looped back by the LAT protocol, or in-
 ternally or externally at the service port. Not all LAT implementa-
 tions support this facility.

 The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These in-
 clude the following: Synchronous data link statistics, Ethernet data
 link statistics, LAT protocol statistics, and port error statistics.
 This data can be displayed and zeroed by the Server Manager.

 INTERNET statistics are also maintained by the server. TCP, IP, ICMP,
 and UDP protocol statistics can be displayed.

 Multiplexing

 Data to/from DECmux ports is multiplexed over the synchronous link or
 links between the MUXserver 320/380 and the DECmux 300. Reliable com-
 munication is achieved using the industry-standard LAPB protocol. Chan-
 nels are statistically multiplexed so the available link capacity is
 shared fairly amongst active ports. Idle ports do not use any link ca-
 pacity.

 Data Compression

 Data Compression is automatically enabled and disabled on a per-port
 basis. It is dependent on the type of data being transmitted and only
 effective on blocks of data. Data Compression is automatically deac-
 tivated when the synchronous link is operating above 19.2 kbps. Data
 Compression efficiency will vary with the application.

                                 17

 

 Background Priority

 Background priority can be specified by the server manager on a per-
 port basis. Traffic to and from ports set to background is reduced in
 favor of other traffic. This feature is especially useful for ports
 that are used for printers.

 Operational Software

 The MUXserver 320/380 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary main-
 tenance operation protocols for downline loading operational software
 from a DECnet Phase IV or Phase V load host, over the Ethernet, into
 server memory. All self-test diagnostics are in MUXserver ROM; down-
 line loading is not a precondition for MUXserver self-test. Once the
 MUXserver 320/380 downline load is complete, the network will self-
 configure and communications will be established with the remote DEC-
 mux 300.

 In the event of a bugcheck caused by a fatal error, the unit will nor-
 mally attempt to upline dump server memory to a DECnet Phase IV or Phase
 V host. Following this, the unit will automatically initialize itself,
 execute the self test routines, and, if still operational, invoke a
 down-line load.

 The remote DECmux 300 operates on ROM-based firmware. The remote DEC-
 mux 300 does not require downline loading but does require a connec-
 tion to a MUXserver 320/380 for operation.

 Performance

 The performance of a given MUXserver 320/380/DECmux 300 network de-
 pends on many factors, including:

 o  Synchronous link speed

 o  Number of route-through synchronous links

 o  Number of terminals

 o  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

 o  Terminal speeds

                                 18

 

 o  Terminal user applications

 o  Number and size of host buffers

 o  Terminal workload

 o  Host workload

 To achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a Digital software
 specialist should perform a level of application analysis that addresses
 the factors above. The actual maximum data throughput cannot be cal-
 culated by multiplying the number of lines by the line speed, since
 many factors can reduce the actual throughput.

 Restrictions on MUXserver 320/380 Usage

 While terminal connections using the MUXserver /DECmux 300 have been
 designed to simulate direct terminal connections, a few differences
 exist because of the nature of the product. Under most circumstances,
 these differences are not noticed by terminal users or service node
 application programs. However, applications directly dependent on the
 following functions may not operate as with a direct connection:

 o  Setting the terminal speed, character size, and parity by manip-
    ulating system data structures

 o  Extremely fast response time (typically less than 200 ms) to op-
    erate

 o  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the ser-
    vice node

 o  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device
    names

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 32.94.00-x).

                                 19

 

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For each VMS system acting as a load host or dump receiver:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 For each VAX/ULTRIX or RISC/ULTRIX acting as a load host or dump re-
 ceiver:

 o  ULTRIX Operating System

 o  DECnet-ULTRIX

 Refer to the Systems Support Addendum (SSA 32.94.00-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Media: QA-YWLA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YWLAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YWLA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The MUXserver 320/380 software is licensed to execute on the MUXserver
 320/380 hardware and the license is supplied with the hardware. No ad-
 ditional license is required for either a load host CPU or a service
 host.

 This product does not provide support for the License Management Fa-
 cility. A Product Authorization Key is not required for installation
 or use of the product.



                                 20

 

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 [R]  UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories,
    Inc.

 [R]  IBM and Personal Computer AT are registered trademarks of In-
    ternational Business Machines Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECconnect, DECmux, DECnet, DEC-
    server, DECstation, DECsystem, DELNI, INTERNET, LA, LA50,
    LA75, LAT, LN03, LQP02, MicroVAX, MUXserver, ThinWire, TK,
    ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS,
    VT100, VT220, VT320, VT340, and VT420 are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.











                                 21
