





           Software
           Product
           Description

           ___________________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1      SPD
           35.09.00

           DESCRIPTION

           The PATHWORKS family of PC Integration products implements Digital Equip-
           ment Corporation's Personal Computing Systems Architecture (PCSA). PCSA
           is an extension of Digital Equipment Corporation's systems and net-
           working architecture that merges the VAX, PC, and Macintosh environ-
           ments.

           PCSA provides a framework for integrating personal computers into the
           organization's total information system so different types of users
           can share information, system resources, and network services across
           the entire organization.

           The PATHWORKS family of software products includes:

           o  PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) - VMS software that allows a VAX sys-
              tem to act as a file, print, mail, and database server to Macin-
              tosh clients. This product is described in this Software Product
              Description.

           o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh - Macintosh software that allows Macintosh
              clients to access file, print, mail, and database services on VMS
              or, in some cases, RISC/ULTRIX systems. This software also includes
              applications for terminal emulation, X display services, DECnet,
              database access, and mail. This product is used in conjunction with
              PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) and is required for Macintosh client
              access to these VMS-based services (SPD 31.53.xx). This product is
              used in conjunction with Pacer for ULTRIX and is required for Mac-
              intosh client access to RISC/ULTRIX-based services.


                                         DIGITAL                  January 1992

                                                                   AE-PJBDA-TE

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


           o  PATHWORKS for VMS - Software that allows a VMS system to act as a
              file, print, mail, and disk server to MS-DOS[R] and OS/2[R] personal
              computers (SPD 30.50.xx).

           o  PATHWORKS for OS/2 - Required software for the personal computer
              running the OS/2 Operating System to use the facilities provided
              by PATHWORKS for VMS and/or make the file and print facilities for
              an OS/2 system available to other personal computers (SPD 55.24.xx).

           o  PATHWORKS for DOS - Required software for the personal computer run-
              ning MS-DOS to use the facilities provided by PATHWORKS for VMS or
              PATHWORKS for OS/2 server software (SPD 55.07.xx).

           o  PATHWORKS for ULTRIX - Software that allows an ULTRIX system to act
              as a file, print, and mail server to DOS and OS/2 personal comput-
              ers (SPD 32.44.xx).

           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) allows VAX computers running the VMS op-
           erating system to offer file, print, mail, and database services to
           Macintosh clients. All of the required software for the VAX server sys-
           tem is contained in this media kit. By using a VAX server system, Mac-
           intosh users can share applications, data, printers, and resources,
           access information from remote systems on the network, and apply that
           information in Macintosh applications.

           Features

           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) provides the following features and ca-
           pabilities:

           o  VAXshare File Services

           o  VAXshare Print Services

           o  Network-based server management

           o  Mail for Macintosh server

           o  Data Access Language[TM] VMS Server and adapter for Rdb/VMS database

           o  AppleTalk[R] for VMS

                                            2

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


           o  AppleTalk-to-DECnet transport gateway

           Server Software

           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) provides the Macintosh user with the fol-
           lowing features of the server software:

           o  VAXshare File Services - The Macintosh user is provided with ac-
              cess to remote VMS file systems as a transparent extension of the
              client's local disk facilities. Macintosh files are stored on the
              VAX system and accessed as if they were stored on the user's lo-
              cal disk. VAXshare file services are based on the AppleTalk for VMS
              (V3.0.1) network transport and are compliant with the Apple[R] Fil-
              ing Protocol (AFP), Version 2.0.

              VAXshare file services assign the Macintosh type and creator at-
              tributes to files that were not created on a Macintosh. The cre-
              ator and type determine the icon that is displayed on the Macin-
              tosh desktop. When a Macintosh user selects a file that was not cre-
              ated using the Macintosh, VAXshare assigns a type and creator based
              on the file's extension through a lookup table. This table may be
              modified to tailor the server to site-specific needs.

              Each Macintosh file stored on the file server is stored as a VMS
              file in RMS Sequential file format. These Macintosh files are ac-
              cessible to VMS users and applications that can interpret the con-
              tent and organization of a file written by a Macintosh application.

              The file server can read all RMS file types that can be read se-
              quentially, allowing Macintosh applications to read files written
              by a VMS application. Each read issued by the Macintosh applica-
              tion will result in the presentation to the application of the next
              'n' bytes contained sequentially in the file.

              AFP byte-range locking is supported for Macintosh applications ac-
              cessing files provided through the file service.

           o  VAXshare Print Services - Remote printers appear to the Macintosh
              user as a transparent extension of the client's local facilities.
              Macintosh users can access VMS print queues to print to both Ap-
              ple

                                            3

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


              LaserWriters[R] and Digital PostScript[R] printers. The Apple Laser-
              Writer can be accessed via a LocalTalk[R]-to-Ethernet router, a di-
              rect Ethernet connection (for those LaserWriters that support this),
              a terminal server (LAT) port, or directly connected to the serial
              port of the VAX computer.

              The system administrator assigns a service name to the print queue.
              The Macintosh users select the printer from the Chooser as they do
              local printers. Then the printer I/O is directed to the defined and
              selected VAXshare print service.

              VAXshare print services include support for the VAXshare Receiver,
              which handles print requests from the Macintosh. The Receiver stores
              the PostScript data it receives from the Macintosh in a temporary
              VMS file before sending the data to the VMS print queuing system.

              VAXshare print services also support the VAXshare print symbiont,
              which transfers data from a VAX system to an Apple LaserWriter printer.
              The VAXshare symbiont also converts an ASCII file submitted by a
              VMS user to PostScript data before transferring the data to the printer.
              The symbiont does not support full ANSI conversion. VAXshare uses
              the DECprint Printing Services to transfer data to a
              Digital PostScript printer.

              The MSA$MANAGER utility is used to create print services. Print queues
              for Digital's printers must be previously defined on the VAX. Laser-
              Writer queues are created by the MSA$MANAGER utility.

           o  Server Management and Control - When a server offers a file resource
              for use, the system administrator can associate an Access Control
              List, which specifies privileges assigned to users.

              While the software may be running on more than one node of a VAX-
              cluster, each Macintosh Volume served can only be served from a sin-
              gle file server in the cluster. As a result, there is no cluster
              fail-over of a served volume.

              An administrator's utility (MSA$MANAGER) is provided to allow the
              system administrator to add and remove services, and show resources.
              The system administrator can also manage a remote server using the
              SET REMOTE command.

                                            4

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


              A second administrator's utility (ATK$MANAGER) is provided to al-
              low the system administrator to set up and maintain AppleTalk for
              VMS and the AppleTalk/DECnet transport gateway.

           o  Mail for Macintosh server - The mail server included in PATHWORKS
              for VMS (Macintosh) provides Macintosh clients with the ability to
              send and receive electronic mail messages. A mail account is es-
              tablished on the VMS server for each client, unless an account al-
              ready exists. Mail can be sent to this account by other Macintosh
              clients as well as users of any mail system that can communicate
              with VMSmail software. The mail server then routes messages to the
              appropriate client when the client logs into the server.

              The PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) mail server provides the Macin-
              tosh user with folders, distribution lists, and delivery capabil-
              ities. Notification of new messages occurs when the Macintosh user
              logs into a network session and the PATHWORKS Listener is running
              on the client.

           Network Connectivity

           AppleTalk for VMS, Version 3.0.1 is an implementation of Apple's Ap-
           pleTalk Networking protocols and interface libraries for VMS systems.
           AppleTalk for VMS allows a VMS system to communicate with an AppleTalk
           network. The VAXshare file and print services use this network trans-
           port. The AppleTalk for VMS protocol stack includes support for the
           following protocols: AELAP, AARP, AEP, NBP, ZIP, RTMP (full set), ATP,
           ASP (server only), PAP (client and server). The ASP client and the AFP
           protocols are not implemented in the AppleTalk for VMS protocol stack.

           AppleTalk for VMS, Version 3.0.1 supports AppleTalk Phase 2 protocols.
           Only Macintosh computers connected to Phase 2 networks can access ser-
           vices using AppleTalk for VMS.

           AppleTalk for VMS also enables routing, or tunneling, through DECnet.
           When tunneling, AppleTalk packets are encapsulated in DECnet packets
           so the AppleTalk network can be extended, and Macintosh users can ac-
           cess remote AppleTalk networks and servers as if they were local.



                                            5

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


           The router provides INTERNET routing, zone management, routing table
           maintenance and name-binding broadcast request handling. When rout-
           ing, or tunneling, datalink speeds below 56 kilobits/second are not
           recommended and speeds below 19.2 kilobits/second are not supported.
           The datalink speed must be capable of handling DECnet and AppleTalk
           traffic (including all protocol overhead) without congestion. That is,
           there must be sufficient bandwith to maintain reliable communications.

           AppleTalk/DECnet Gateway, which is VMS software, connects a Macintosh
           with a DECnet service on any DECnet node. As a result, Macintosh users
           who only have AppleTalk connectivity but no DECnet resident software
           can participate in task-to-task applications. Macintosh applications
           that are written to take advantage of the AppleTalk/DECnet gateway can
           participate in AppleTalk/DECnet task-to-task communications. The gate-
           way provides bi-directional conversion between AppleTalk ADSP and DEC-
           net NSP protocols.

           Database Access

           The Data Access Language server and adapter for Rdb are included with
           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh). The Data Access Language is a database
           connectivity language based on the structured query language (SQL).
           The Data Access Language, as supported by PATHWORKS for VMS (Macin-
           tosh), provides access to Rdb/VMS databases. This allows Macintosh ap-
           plications that support the Data Access Language to access informa-
           tion stored in a remote Rdb database. The Rdb/VMS software is avail-
           able as a separate product and must be installed on a VAX computer to
           be used with the Rdb adapter. Refer to the VAX Rdb/VMS Software Prod-
           uct Description (SPD 25.59.xx) for more information about VAX Rdb/VMS
           software.

           Installation and Configuration

           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) is installed on the VAX using the stan-
           dard VMSINSTAL procedure. PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh), Version 1.1
           must be installed prior to installing the PATHWORKS for Macintosh, Ver-
           sion 1.1 client software.




                                            6

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


           Digital recommends that the customer's first purchase of this soft-
           ware product include the PATHWORKS for Macintosh DECstart (QS-YPCAL-
           4R). This is an implementation and orientation service that provides
           support for first-time customers of the PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh)
           and PATHWORKS for Macintosh products. The service assists in the in-
           stallation of the PATHWORKS software, the integration of Macintosh work-
           stations into the Digital Network, and the setup of the user's envi-
           ronments.

           Restrictions and Limitations

           Because PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) uses
           AppleTalk Phase 2 protocols, services provided by the VAX servers will
           only be accessible to Macintoshes that are connected to Phase 2 net-
           works. Phase 1 networks can co-exist with Phase 2 provided there is
           a suitably placed Phase 1 to Phase 2 transition router somewhere in
           the network. Use of Phase 1 protocols anywhere in the network is not
           recommended due to the increased network load.

           The Data Access Language server limits the number of connections to
           1,024. The default connection limit is 63. To increase the limit, in-
           crease the SOCKET COUNT. Each DAL connection requires two sockets and
           the maximum value for the socket count is 2,048.

           While AFP byte range locking is supported among Macintosh clients, only
           file locking is supported with other types of clients (DOS and OS/2).

           For serially connected LaserWriters, the following characters in font
           families are not available: Ctrl-C, Ctrl-D, Ctrl-Q, Ctrl-S, Ctrl-T.
           These characters are used by the PostScript interpreter for handshak-
           ing purposes. Attempts to print these characters results in a substi-
           tuted space character.

           The Mail for Macintosh server restricts folder names to 39 characters.
           If a user creates a folder with more than 39 characters in the name,
           it is truncated after the 39th character.





                                            7

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
           Support Addendum (SSA 35.09.00-x).

           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) has been tested on a number of supported
           configurations (refer to SSA 35.09.00-x). If a customer problem with
           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) is reproduced by the customer on one of
           these supported configurations, Digital will work the problem to res-
           olution on these supported configurations. If the customer problem can-
           not be reproduced by the customer on one of these supported config-
           urations, it is the responsibility of the customer to resolve the is-
           sue.

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

           o  VMS Operating System

           For Workstations Running VMS:

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS Workstation Software

           For Workstations Running DECwindows:

           o  VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 35.09.00-x) for availabil-
           ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
           information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Client Software License: QL-YPH9W-AA
              (One required per Macintosh client.)
           Media and Documentation: QA-YPCAA-H*
              (Minimum of one required.)

                                            8

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


           Server Administration Documentation:
              (Identical to documentation contained in the QA-YPCAA-H* kits.) QA-
              YPCAA-GZ (Optional.)
           Programmer's Documentation:
              QA-YPCAC-GZ (Optional.)
           Software Product Services:
              PATHWORKS Layered Product Support:
              QT-GZPA9-**
              Media and Documentation Distribution Service:
              QT-YPCAA-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
              censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

           Documentation

           Server Administration documentation includes the Introduction to the
           AppleTalk Network System, Server Installation Guide, Server Adminis-
           trator's Guide, and Server Administrator's Reference Manual.

           Programmers' documentation includes the Programmer's Guide, Program-
           mer's Reference, Data Access Language Programmer's Reference, Commu-
           nications Toolbox Reference, DECnet for Macintosh Programmer's Ref-
           erence, Programmer's Update, and the DAL Programmer's Update.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           The PATHWORKS for Macintosh license gives the user the right to use
           the client software on a single Macintosh CPU and to use the PATHWORKS
           for VMS (Macintosh) server software on one or more VAX systems, or the
           Pacer for ULTRIX server software on one or more RISC/ULTRIX systems.

           A license must be obtained in advance for each Macintosh system on which
           the PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software is installed or from which
           the PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) or Pacer for ULTRIX services are ac-
           cessed.





                                            9

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00


           The PATHWORKS for Macintosh license also gives the user the right to
           use ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh client software (SPD 31.51.xx). The
           media and documentation for ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh are available
           separately.

           This product does not support the License Management Facility (LMF).

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
           Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
           formation on Digital's licensing terms and policies, please contact
           your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
           formation, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software is provided by Digital with the purchase
           of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Ad-
           dendum of this SPD.
           eightpointss

           [R]   MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

           [R]   OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
               chines Corporation.

           [R]   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Incorpo-
               rated.

           [R]   Apple, AppleTalk, LaserWriter, LocalTalk, and Macintosh are
               registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

           [TM]Data Access Language is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.





                                            10

 



           PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh[R]), Version 1.1           SPD 35.09.00



           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, DEC, DECnet, DECprint, DECstart,
               DEClaser, DECwindows, INTERNET, LAT, LN03R, LN03 ScriptPrinter,
               MicroVAX, PATHWORKS, PCSA, PrintServer, Rdb/VMS, TK, ULTRIX,
               VAX, VAXmate, VAXshare, VAXstation, and VMS are trademarks of
               Digital Equipment Corporation.



































                                            11
