 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0      SPD 32.07.00

     DESCRIPTION

     DECpresent for VMS is an application that enables users prepare
     presentation materials quickly and easily. DECpresent provides a
     complete set of features designed to automate and accelerate the
     task of preparing and delivering a presentation using overhead
     transparencies, 35mm slides, or the workstation display.

     Presentation content or "slide shows" may be comprised of text,
     graphics, images, charts and tables.

     Features

     Overview

     DECpresent offers an integrated outliner, table editor, text
     editor, graphics editor, and color image editor. DECpresent
     includes DECchart for data driven charting. DECpresent is a
     full-color application.

     DECpresent includes productivity features for the creator of a
     presentation. The Sorter View allows the user to view the pre-
     sentation as a group of slides displayed in a reduced scale.
     Using the Sorter View, it is easy to re-order the slides within
     a presentation and to perform common edits such as copy, delete,
     etc. Speaker Notes permit the user to create and print a compan-
     ion set of notes.

     To help the user illustrate presentations, DECpresent includes
     an Art Gallery. Users can visually preview, then select the
     artwork from the Art Gallery directly into the presentation.

                                  DIGITAL               December 1990

                                                          AE-PE5DA-TE

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     A Slide Show facility is provided which enables the workstation
     display to act as the presentation delivery media.

     DECpresent includes an Equation Editor for technical and scien-
     tific presentations.

     DECpresent runs under VMS DECwindows and utilizes a graphical
     WYSIWYG (What-You-See-Is-What-You-Get) interface. The WYSIWYG
     interface displays the document on the screen closely simulating
     the way it will appear when printed.

     DECpresent adheres to the DECwindows Style Guide and has the
     same look and feel of other DECwindows applications.

     DECpresent is compliant with Digital's Compound Document Ar-
     chitecture (CDA) and can take advantage of the CDA converter
     architecture and system level support.

     User Interface

     DECpresent displays its functions through a graphical user
     interface. Functions are represented through straightforward
     menu selections and icons. The combination of pull-down and
     pull-right menus, keyboard sequences, and dialogue boxes con-
     tains all of the functions needed to use DECpresent. The menus
     also display the keyboard equivalents provided to perform these
     functions from the keyboard.

     In addition, DECpresent provides context sensitive pop-up menus.

     The user interface also features the following:

     o  Vertical and horizontal scroll bars

     o  Rulers with tracking and grids for easy placement of text
        blocks and objects

     o  Icons for selecting draw functions and applications; e.g.,
        DECpresent Paint, DECchart

     o  Zoom

                                     2

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     o  Status display boxes which display information such as the
        current slide number, total slide count, current template,
        and graphic object size

     Learn

     Under the Learn pull-down, DECpresent offers a list of tutori-
     als. The Learn tutorials offer users illustrated online training
     targeted on the product functionality that is used most fre-
     quently.

     Help

     DECpresent features context sensitive Help on many functions.
     Help provides detailed information on how to utilize DECpresent
     features.

     Outliner

     DECpresent's Outliner provides an easy way to quickly create
     a presentation. Each slide in the presentation corresponds to
     a main title in the outline. The text of the main title serves
     as the title for the slide. Text is inserted or deleted from a
     point in the outline. Points may be moved, promoted, or demoted.
     Outlines may be collapsed or expanded to hide subordinate points
     or to display all points within the Outline View.

     Text Editor

     DECpresent includes a full word processing editor with typi-
     cal functions such as select, cut, copy, paste, undo, redo and
     navigation. DECpresent features sophisticated search and re-
     place capabilities including the ability to search for returns,
     special characters and spaces.

     DECpresent emulates several keyboard styles including GOLD
     KEY for WPS-PLUS compatibility; EVE, EDT, EMACS, MS-Word-like,
     Wordperfect-like, for technical users; and a DECpresent-specific
     keyboard interface.

                                     3

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     DECpresent supports multiple language hyphenation. For exam-
     ple, French and German may be used within the same document.
     Supported language hyphenation includes: Dutch, English (Amer-
     ican and British), French, Spanish, Italian, German, Swedish,
     Norwegian, Portuguese, Finnish, and Danish.

     DECpresent allows users to create a personal exception dic-
     tionary for words that do not commonly appear in a standard
     dictionary. The exception dictionaries can be kept locally or
     used globally in a DECpresent workgroup. Hyphenation can also be
     controlled with discretionary hyphens.

     Linguistics

     DECpresent includes Houghton Mifflin's Spell Checker. The Amer-
     ican lexicon based on the American Heritage Dictionary is in-
     cluded with the U.S. Basic International Version.

     DECpresent allows users to verify and correct spelling in multi-
     ple languages. For example, when French and German are used
     within a document, words in those languages are also spell
     checked if the French and German optional lexicons are added
     to the system. Optional language lexicons are available. For
     more information, refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA
     32.07.00-x).

     In addition, users can verify and correct word usage and access
     an electronic thesaurus for American English.

     LiveLink

     DECpresent includes a LiveLink capability which allows users
     to link to a variety of supported applications and their data.
     Data that is linked to DECpresent becomes part of the DECpresent
     document and may be automatically updated when the document is
     next edited. Conversely, updates can be controlled by the user
     so that they occur only when desired. Links to applications can
     be modified or deleted at any time by the user.

                                     4

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     Applications which can LiveLink to DECpresent include:

     o  DECview 3D for viewing CAD data and converting to DDIF format
        for linking to DECpresent. DECview 3D is optional software.
        Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x).

     o  DECdecision and its components. DECdecision is optional
        software. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x).

     o  DECwrite. DECwrite is optional software. Refer to the System
        Support Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x).

     o  DECpresent Equation Editor (included with DECpresent).

     o  DECchart (included with DECpresent).

     o  DECpresent Paint (included with DECpresent).

     Links to Data

     It is possible to link to other DECpresent presentation docu-
     ments, to DECwindows Paint files, to DDIF pictures and images,
     or to final form data such as encapsulated PostScript[R] files
     (EPSF).

     Art Gallery and Artwork

     DECpresent offers an Art Gallery facility designed to help
     users organize artwork by topic. The Art Gallery presents a
     visual display of the artwork which enhances the process of
     artwork selection. Users first select a Gallery name from which
     to display the artwork. Users can then select, cut and paste
     artwork from the Gallery into a slide. Users can add private
     galleries in addition to those included with DECpresent.

     DECpresent includes a starter collection of artwork in DDIF
     format. EPS formatted artwork can be added to a user's Gallery.
     The DDIF artwork can be revised (edited) using DECpresent's
     Draw feature. EPS artwork can be resized and positioned but not
     revised.

                                     5

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     Display PostScript Support

     DECpresent for VMS will support the display of EPS files in
     presentation documents and within the Art Gallery.



































                                     6

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     Converters

     The CDA Converter Library is packaged with DECpresent.

     DECpresent utilizes the CDA converter architecture to inter-
     change data with other applications. The converter architecture
     assures that a variety of formats can be converted to Digital
     Document Interchange Format (DDIF) which is DECpresent's native
     file format.

     The CDA Converter Library for VMS documentation set can be
     purchased separately (QL-VZAAA-GZ). Refer to the System Support
     Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x).

     Presentation Style and Templates

     A presentation style is a collection of templates that are used
     as a basis for slide layout and graphic design. A presentation
     style and its templates are an efficient way to organize the at-
     tributes that determine layout and appearance of a presentation.
     This includes font, color, layout, background treatments, and
     graphic elements such as logos.

     A template is a pre-created form that can be filled in quickly
     to create a slide. A template can contain any graphics object
     including lines, rectangles, and tables.

     The appearance of a slide is easily modified when the user
     applies a new template. For example, users can merge a pre-
     sentation with a different style and color scheme into a new
     presentation by pasting the slides from the old presentation to
     the new presentation, and applying the new templates.

     DECpresent will create a continuation slide if the amount of
     text input requires multiple slides.

     Graphics Editor (Draw)


                                     7

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     DECpresent includes an object-oriented graphics editor which
     contains the following objects: line, square, rectangle, circle,
     ellipse, arc, stroke, polygon, and polylines. Objects may be
     filled with patterns or shaded, and their outlines may be solid,
     dotted, dashed, or a pattern. Objects may also be drawn in a
     wide variety of line weights. A freehand drawing tool is also
     provided.

     Frames can be created to hold a drawing.

     Annotation arrows with filled, open, double, or single arrow-
     heads can be easily applied to drawings or on top of images.
     Text labels may be placed next to the arrows to identify parts
     of a drawing.

     All graphic objects, including text labels, can be sized and
     scaled visually, to a percentage, or to exact dimensions. Align-
     ment, duplication and space distribution features allow users to
     easily create diagrams, schematics, flowcharts.

     Graphics can be placed anywhere within a document including
     above or below text, or in running heads and feet. Graphics may
     be placed in frames which can be anchored to various reference
     points in text, or to a particular place on a page, including
     the margin.

     Table Editor

     The table editor is used to create simple text tables. Text
     formatting and graphic attributes are used to communicate infor-
     mation more clearly.

     Cell background color or pattern can be changed for emphasis.
     Rows and columns can be added or deleted. Text attributes can be
     edited individually. Graphics can be added to frames within a
     cell.

     The DECpresent table editor is not a spreadsheet. It is designed
     for multi-line text creation and presentation within a table.
     Graphics may be placed on frames within a table cell.

                                     8

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     DECchart

     DECchart is packaged with DECpresent.

     The DECchart component is an easy to use and easy to learn data
     charting application that allows users to create professional
     business graphics for compound documents. Users need only spec-
     ify two things, the data to chart and the chart style to use. A
     chart is automatically generated.

     DECchart features include:

     o  Nine pre-defined chart types: Bar, Column, Line, Pie, Area,
        Scatter, Hi-Lo, Histogram, Combination

     o  A choice of 45 chart style variations

     o  Ability to modify pre-defined chart styles to create user-
        defined chart styles

     o  Import data from: Lotus 1-2-3[R], DECalc and DECalc-PLUS,
        DECgraph, DIF and ASCII files, and tables from DECdecision

     o  Easy to use worksheet interface for data entry, modification,
        and manipulation (cut, copy, and paste data in the worksheet)

     o  Automatic trend line generation for scatter charts

     o  Graphics annotation as overlay: text, lines, rectangles, and
        arrowheads anywhere on a chart for emphasis and customization

     o  Color support, assigning color attributes to: axes, baseline,
        frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, column and bar fills,
        and overlay objects

     o  Modification of chart attributes including: axes, baseline,
        data values, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, drop
        shadows, bar spacing, and bar overlap

     o  Modification of text attributes, changing: font size, family,
        weight, and slant

     o  File flexibility; saving data, chart style, chart overlay,
        and color selections separately, or save everything together

                                     9

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     o  Selectable fill patterns, line patterns, marker types, and
        attributes

     o  Customization with user preferences

     o  Ability to move and resize overlay objects

     DECpresent Paint

     This application is an integrated color and/or gray-scale image
     editor. It is an editing tool intended for simple bitmap editing
     tasks. Simple paint style tools allow editing.

     Output Options

     Slide Show or Softcopy Output

     DECpresent offers a Slide Show utility which allows the user to
     display the presentation on the workstation monitor according to
     the user's settings. Manual or automatic modes are available.
     Slide Show options include: Forward, Reverse, Go To Slide View,
     Stop, Resume and Start.

     Printers from Digital Equipment Corporation

     DECpresent provides high-quality output to Digital PostScript
     printers such as the ScriptPrinter (LN03R), the PrintServer 20,
     PrintServer 40, PrintServer 40 Plus, and for color PostScript,
     the Colormate PS. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA
     32.07.00-x).

     Third Party Film Printers

     DECpresent provides high-quality PostScript (black and white or
     color) output. Film recorders that support PostScript Rev. 50.3
     or higher may be used with DECpresent. For details, refer to the
     System Support Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x).

     HPGL[TM] Output

                                    10

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     The CDA Graphics Hardcopy Converter can be used to convert DECp-
     resent's DDIF document to an HPGL file. The converted file may
     then be queued to an HPGL device. Both conversion and queuing
     are managed external to the DECpresent application.


     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x).

     Display Devices:

     DECpresent will run on any of the above processors, but requires
     either a VMS, VAX ULTRIX, or RISC ULTRIX workstation, a VT1200*,
     or an Intel 80286*, or 80386* with PC DECwindows for display.

     *  Not recommended as a replacement for workstation performance.
        Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

     o  VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
        dows)

     Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.07.00-x) for avail-
     ability and versions of required/optional software and for
     information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

     PC DECwindows Display Facility

     The PC DECwindows Display Facility is an MS-DOS[R] applica-
     tion that implements an X server using the industry-standard
     X Window System, Version 11 (X11) protocol. DECpresent execut-
     ing on a remote VMS system with DECnet may be displayed on and
     receive input from the personal computer. The PC DECwindows
     Display Facility is supported only on Intel 80286 and 80386 ma-
     chines. Refer to the DECnet PCSA Client for DOS, Version 3.0
     Software Product Description and System Support Addendum (SPD

                                    11

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     55.07.08/SSA 55.07.08-x) for full hardware/software require-
     ments.


     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software Licenses: QL-YHEA9-PB
     Software Media: QA-YHEAA-H*
     Software Documentation: QA-YHEAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-YHEA*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity.

     License units for this product are allocated on a User/Activity
     basis.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.


                                    12

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00



     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     International Hyphenators, and International CorrectSpell li-
     censed from Houghton Mifflin Company. Copyright (c) 1985, 1987,
     1988 by Houghton Mifflin. German (c) 1985, 1987 by Langenscheidt
     K.G. French in cooperation with Libraire Larousse. Italian
     (c) 1988 by Nicola Zanichelli. All rights reserved. U.S. Pat.
     Nos. 4,580,241, 4,724,523 and 4,771,401. Canadian. Pat. No.
     1,203,916. Thesaurus U.S. Pat. No. 4,724,523. English based upon
     The AMERICAN HERITAGE DICTIONARY. Reproduction or disassembly of
     embodied computer programs or algorithms prohibited.

     Arts and Letters[R] clipart licensed to Digital Equipment Corpo-
     ration, Maynard, Massachusetts. Copyright (c) Computer Support
     Corporation 1985-1990. All rights reserved.

     [R]  Arts and Letters is a registered trademark of Computer
          Support Corporation.

     [R]  Lotus 1-2-3 is a registered trademark of Lotus Development
          Corporation.

     [R]  MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

     [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

     [TM] HPGL is a trademark of Hewlett-Packard Corporation.



                                    13

 


     DECpresent for VMS, Version 1.0                     SPD 32.07.00




     [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, GOLD KEY, DECpresent, DECwrite,
          DECdecision, DECalc, DECalc-PLUS, DECgraph, DECwindows,
          LiveLink, LN03, LVP16, PrintServer, VAX, MicroVAX, VAXsta-
          tion, VAXserver and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment
          Corporation.

































                                    14
