 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECperformance Solution Data Collector, SPD
           36.02.00                Version 1.0

           DESCRIPTION

           DECps Family of Products

           DECperformance Solution (DECps) is a family of VMS layered
           products that reduces the time and effort required to man-
           age and monitor VAX system performance, as well as plan for
           future resource requirements. The DECperformance Solution
           products can be used with standalone VAX, VAXcluster and Lo-
           cal Area VAXcluster systems, as well as Mixed-interconnect
           VAXcluster systems. The DECperformance Solution family of
           software products includes:

           DECperformance Solution Data Collector

           DECps Data Collector gathers and manages VMS system data.
           It is described in this SPD. The components are:

           o  Data Collection and Storage

           o  Dump Report

           o  Data Archiving

           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor

           DECps Performance Advisor analyzes VMS data through the ap-
           plication of expert system technology, identifies specific
           conditions causing performance degradation, and presents de-
           tailed evidence to support its conclusions. Further, the Per-
           formance Advisor provides recommendations for attaining im-
           proved system performance. It is described in SPD 36.03.xx.
           The components are:

                                    DIGITAL            December 1991

                                                         AE-PH76A-TE

 



           DECperformance Solution Data Collector,     SPD 36.02.00
           Version 1.0

           o  Performance Knowledge Base and Rules Compiler

           o  Performance Analysis

           o  Reporting and Graphing

           o  Callable Interface

           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner

           DECps Capacity Planner determines system performance lev-
           els for various workloads and configurations. It is described
           in SPD 36.04.xx. The components are:

           o  Workload modeling including:
              Validation
              Terminal Response
              Memory

           o  Predictive modeling including:
              "What if" analysis
              Saturation analysis

           DECperformance Solution Accounting Chargeback

           DECps Accounting Chargeback generates a report of charges
           based upon system resource utilization with user-specified
           resource pricing. It is described in SPD 36.60.xx.

           DECperformance Solution Data Collector

           Data Collection and Storage

           DECps Data Collector records VMS system data for subsequent
           processing by the DECps advisor. The data collector runs as
           a detached process and is activated at system start up.

           DECps Data collector collects data according to a user-defined
           schedule maintained in a schedule file; default collection
           is 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The data collection
           schedule should be consistent for each node in the VAXclus-
           ter system to ensure all critical pieces of system data are

                                       2

 



           DECperformance Solution Data Collector,     SPD 36.02.00
           Version 1.0

           collected. The data collector will automatically shut off
           when the disk on which the raw DECps data files reside has
           insufficient free space.

           Dump Report

           This report displays data from the DECps database files in
           user-readable format. The user may select to dump the full
           database record, or may choose to dump a portion of the database
           record by selecting data from the following categories:

           o  Metrics

           o  Parameters

           o  Processes

           o  Disks and Disk Caches

           o  Tapes

           o  Communications

           o  System configuration and SCS

           o  CPU

           o  Rules

           o  Hotfiles

           Data Archiving

           DECps Data collector provides data archiving capabilities
           so the VMS performance data collected by DECps on a daily
           basis can be used in long-term performance studies. When DECps
           daily data files are archived, the resultant data files are
           known as history files. History files, which can be used as
           the data source for generating Performance Evaluation Re-
           ports, Dump Reports, and Graphs, are created according to
           user-specified reduction scheme(s). The user has the abil-
           ity to define specifically how the data will be archived by
           defining history file descriptor elements, such as the gran-
           ularity, periodicity, time interval, model data, workload

                                       3

 



           DECperformance Solution Data Collector,     SPD 36.02.00
           Version 1.0

           family, retention period, schedule, and holiday schedule.
           The size of the history file is dependent on the data re-
           duction scheme selected with the most important element be-
           ing the interval size defined. The size of reduced data, in
           blocks, is about 10 times smaller than it is in daily form.

           Features

           o  Support for single VAX processors, VAXcluster, Local Area
              VAXcluster and Mixed-interconnect VAXcluster, and mul-
              tiple CI-VAXcluster systems is provided.

           o  Data collection is easily defined by the user for auto-
              matic collection of system performance data.

           o  DECps data can be archived and presented for any length
              of time in both report and graph format.

           o  Computer Based Training (CBT) is provided to help users
              learn about the DECps product set.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 36.02.00-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 36.60.00-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-GX1A*-**
           Software Media: QA-GX1A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-GX1AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-GX1A*-**

                                       4

 



           DECperformance Solution Data Collector,     SPD 36.02.00
           Version 1.0

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           The right to use the DECps Data Collector for VMS software
           was included in VAX Software Performance Monitor (SPD 27.56.xx),
           VAX Performance Advisor (SPD 27.71.xx) and DEC Capacity Plan-
           ner.

           When an Update License is required for DECps Data Collec-
           tor and the license that granted the right to use the prod-
           uct is the product is the VAX Software Performance Monitor,
           or VAX Performance Advisor, or DEC Capacity Planner the cus-
           tomer should purchase the DECps Data Collector Update Li-
           cense.

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information on Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

                                       5

 



           DECperformance Solution Data Collector,     SPD 36.02.00
           Version 1.0

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.







































                                       6

 



           DECperformance Solution Data Collector,     SPD 36.02.00
           Version 1.0

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, VMS, VAX, VAXstation, MicroVAX,
                VAXcluster and VAXserver are trademarks of Digital
                Equipment Corporation.
































                                       7
