 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS, Version 1.2  SPD 39.59.01

 DESCRIPTION

 This document describes three of the components of the DEC MAILworks
 product family: DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS, DEC MAILworks for
 OpenVMS Video Terminals, and DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows. These
 three components are layered software products which reside on Open-
 VMS. For information on other available components, refer to DEC MAIL-
 works Product Family Software Product Description (SPD 31.51.xx).

 DEC MAILworks is an electronic messaging application which implements
 the international messaging standards set by the CCITT X.400 P2 rec-
 ommendations. It provides a means of exchanging messages and attached
 data with other users, and is a consistent user interface across het-
 erogeneous desktop devices in a client/server implementation.

 Layered on top of Digital Equipment Corporation's VAX Message Router
 (SPD 26.33.xx), DEC MAILworks interacts with all other MAILbus gate-
 ways and complementary products.

 DEC MAILworks is a client/server implementation supporting Video Ter-
 minals, DOS PCs, the Microsoft(R) Windows[TM] environment, Apple(R) Mac-
 intosh(R) computers, DECwindows OpenVMS workstations, and other X11 dis-
 play devices. DEC MAILworks represents an upgrade path for current users
 of Digital's OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility (VMSmail) or DECwindows VMS-
 mail.

 DEC MAILworks was formerly named ALL-IN-1 MAIL. However, DEC MAILworks
 has no technical dependency whatever on the ALL-IN-1 integrated of-
 fice product. It may be used entirely independent of that product. DOS
 and DECwindows clients that connect directly into the ALL-IN-1 inte-
 grated office system base and do not require the DEC MAILworks Server

                               DIGITAL                     June 1993

                                                         AE-PNDEB-TK

 

 are also available. For more information, refer to the Software Prod-
 uct Descriptions for ALL-IN-1 DESKtop for DOS (SPD 50.20.xx) and ALL-IN-1
 Services for DECwindows (SPD 33.22.xx).

 Client software performs services for users. This software usually re-
 sides on an intelligent desktop device and takes advantage of the pro-
 cessing power on the desk. The OpenVMS clients (for Video Terminals
 or DECwindows devices) run on the OpenVMS VAX operating system and must
 reside within the same node or VAXcluster as the server.

 Clients are connected to the DEC MAILworks Server, which performs lo-
 cal and wide area network delivery services.

 Transport between DEC MAILworks Servers, and between DEC MAILworks Servers
 and the ALL-IN-1 product family, is performed by the VAX Message Router.
 Optional gateways may also be connected to the VAX Message Router as
 needed for mail transfer in a multivendor environment.

 Users might alternately use an intelligent workstation in the office,
 a video terminal at home, or a DOS laptop PC while traveling. Clients
 are provided for all three situations and for others, all using the
 same user mailbox and files on the server.

 DEC MAILworks adheres to the National Institute for Science and Tech-
 nology (NIST) profile of 1984 CCITT X.400 recommendations. It provides
 a level of messaging service compatible with that of the electronic
 messaging subsystem of the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system, and adds
 new service elements defined in X.400 and DEC MAILworks.

 Features

 Transports

 The DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS supports three different client-
 to-server transport connections. They are DECnet, TCP/IP, and asyn-
 chronous connections with Kermit.




                                  2

 

 The DEC MAILworks Server can support all of these transports simul-
 taneously. The client specifies which transport it will use to con-
 nect to the server. By default the server will support DECnet and asyn-
 chronous connections. To make a TCP/IP connection, the proper soft-
 ware must be running on the server along with the correct configura-
 tion modifications to enable this transport.

 Even if DECnet is not being used to connect from the client to the DEC
 MAILworks Server, it is still required to run on the VAX with the DEC
 MAILworks Server for the various network connections the DEC MAILworks
 Server makes to VAX Message Router Transfer Service and VAX Message
 Router Directory Service (DDS).

 Compatibility with VMSmail

 Users can migrate easily from VMSmail to DEC MAILworks. The interfaces
 are logical extensions of the VMSmail interface, and commands and ser-
 vices will be familiar. Addresses and distribution lists used in VMS-
 mail can be used in DEC MAILworks. From the OpenVMS-resident clients,
 nickname logicals may be used. Most addresses used in VMSmail distri-
 bution lists may be used in DEC MAILworks with similar restrictions
 as found when using such a list from another node.

 No file cabinet conversion is required for either of the OpenVMS-based
 interfaces. A one-time file cabinet conversion is required to make Open-
 VMS mail messages available from the PC.

 Messages can be exchanged with VMSmail on the same system or elsewhere
 in the network by means of the VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway. This
 is included in the DEC MAILworks Wide Area Network Server Package or
 can be purchased as an option.

 Users can select an editor for use in DEC MAILworks. Any editor called
 or spawned under VMSmail can be called or spawned from DEC MAILworks.

 Compatibility with ALL-IN-1

 Messages can be exchanged with the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system
 by means of the VAX Message Router using the same style of address-
 ing.

                                  3

 

 The services of DEC MAILworks are compatible with services in the elec-
 tronic messaging subsystem of ALL-IN-1. For example, receipt requests
 from either product are honored by the other. New features defined in
 the CCITT X.400 P2 recommendations may be implemented in stages by both
 products.

 Distribution lists created in the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system
 can be used in DEC MAILworks. They work with the same restrictions found
 when sending a list to another ALL-IN-1 office system node. (Refer to
 product documentation for details.) Addressing strings used in the ALL-IN-1
 office system work equally well in DEC MAILworks, with the exception
 of addressing strings which invoke ALL-IN-1's foreign protocol hook
 (those beginning with an underscore).

 X.400 Message Transport

 Messages can be exchanged with other DEC MAILworks domains and ser-
 vices that meet international X.400 P2 conformance criteria.

 In DEC MAILworks, each customer network is referred to as a "domain."
 Within a customer network, messages are transported by means of VAX
 Message Router. Transport to another vendor's X.400 service requires
 an OSI networking stack and the VAX Message Router X.400 Gateway (MRX).

 OSI message exchange requires at least one MRX Gateway in each Dig-
 ital domain (usually one per customer network). Refer to the VAX Mes-
 sage Router X.400 Gateway Software Product Description (SPD 27.50.xx)
 for hardware/software requirements.

 Supporting the Multivendor Environment

 MAILbus offers a series of off-the-shelf gateways and a gateway de-
 velopment kit to create other gateways for message exchange with other
 vendors' proprietary mail systems. Refer to the appropriate Software
 Product Description for the products' hardware/software requirements.

 Directory Services



                                  4

 

 DEC MAILworks uses Digital's Enterprisewide Directory Service (DDS)
 as its user address directory. This distributed directory, available
 as part of the VAX Message Router, links DEC MAILworks, TeamLinks Mail,
 the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system, the gateways, and any other agents
 sharing its directory services.

 In addition, the DEC MAILworks OpenVMS clients provide a Personal Ad-
 dress Book (PAB). The PAB allows users to store and retrieve commonly
 used mail addresses, along with name, phone number, and nickname.

 The DEC MAILworks OpenVMS clients also support creation and access of
 distribution lists, which provides an easy way to address large groups
 of users. These distribution lists can be shared among a group of users
 by using the OpenVMS Access Control facilities.

 During addressing, users can easily access DDS, the PAB, and distri-
 bution lists. All three services can be used in combination during mes-
 sage creation.

 The DDS directory is a networking resource available only while the
 server connection is in place.

 Filing Services

 DEC MAILworks provides a filing structure of drawers and folders as
 well as access to RMS files. Filing services are similar in nature to
 VMSmail. A DECwindows device with local storage may have one or more
 drawers on the local device in addition to one or more drawers on the
 server.

 OpenVMS-based drawers may be shared among groups of users, with each
 user's privileges defined by OpenVMS access controls.

 Message Retrieval

 Messages can be retrieved based on user specification of certain header
 fields and filing structures.

 File Formats

                                  5

 

 As detailed below, a number of different editors can be used with each
 interface. The editor most appropriate to a DECwindows device will be
 different from that which is preferred on a video terminal. A vari-
 ety of file formats come with these editors. DEC MAILworks is designed
 to handle various file formats with features that allow configuration
 for maximum readability of messages. The system allows for the auto-
 mated handling of messages in ASCII, DDIF, WPS-PLUS, and DX, and for
 invocation of other file formatting or conversion routines that con-
 form to Digital's Compound Document Architecture (CDA).

 The DEC MAILworks OpenVMS clients can be set up to invoke viewers or
 applications based on the file type of each attachment.

 DEC MAILworks can be set to perform automatic conversions of message
 components as they are delivered, using optional OpenVMS-resident con-
 version services such as Digital's CDA Converter Library for OpenVMS
 (SPD 31.31.xx) or other third-party converters such as KEYpak(R) for Open-
 VMS (SPD 32.71.xx). This is an additional-cost option. Users can reg-
 ister their file format preferences in the profile.

 For advice on interchange of specific file formats, especially across
 gateways, consult your local Digital office.

 Help

 Users can get help for DEC MAILworks using the Help facility. Help pro-
 vides basic information on how to perform the function in question with-
 out users having to reference the documentation.

 Printing

 DEC MAILworks takes advantage of Digital's standard OpenVMS printing.
 Users can specify the printer destination and options.

 Messaging Functions

 Users can create, read, and send messages using the commands provided.
 Messages can contain information in a variety of file format types in-
 cluding Digital's Document Interchange Format (DDIF) for compound doc-
 uments.

                                  6

 

 Messages can be forwarded to another destination. Message attachments
 may include another message, a document or file, or even a binary file.

 Answering a message is easy. The system automatically addresses the
 answer for transfer back to the original sender. Users can reply to
 the sender, all the original recipients, or to a reply-to list.

 Messages can be addressed to one or more users at any valid MAILbus
 destination (e.g., VMSmail, ULTRIX mail, X.400, etc.) worldwide. File
 formats may possibly be modified by gateways or user agents in order
 to make the memo readable to the recipient. Not all file formats are
 supported by all gateways and user agents. Care should be taken in plan-
 ning the network capabilities to ensure maximum readability of memos.

 Notifications

 Users can specify Delivery and Receipt notification when sending a mes-
 sage. This causes a notification message to be generated and returned
 to the originator when the message is delivered or received.

 Users can choose to receive on-line notification of the arrival of new
 messages.

 Message Redirection

 Users can request that all incoming messages be automatically redi-
 rected to a secondary address.

 Priority-based Delivery

 Users can choose priority for message delivery. The grade of deliv-
 ery (express, first class, second class) can be specified.

 Message Classes

 Users can set a number of indicators to give the recipient informa-
 tion about the nature of the message: Importance (high, medium, low),
 Sensitivity (not restricted, personal, private, company confidential).

 These fields may also be used to locate classes of messages in the file
 cabinet.

                                  7

 

 System Management

 Required local system management for the mail system is minimal and
 usually automated. A system manager or administrator is required to
 open a standard OpenVMS account; when the user first accesses DEC MAIL-
 works, basic account setup functions are performed automatically; most
 routine functions can be performed by the users.

 There are no special utilities to run for file cabinet maintenance.
 One or all user areas on the server can be backed up or restored us-
 ing standard OpenVMS utilities.

 The mail management design adheres to the coordinated management sys-
 tem used by the MAILbus family of products. The DEC MAILworks Server
 provides a management utility which allows configuration changes to
 be made and the status of the mail system to be checked. Invoking this
 utility via the OpenVMS SYSMAN utility allows such operations to be
 managed centrally.

 Internationalization

 DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS, DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Ter-
 minals, and DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows are designed to sup-
 port multilingual operations. They can be deployed in a multilingual
 network and can support multilingual operations on a single server sys-
 tem. DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS, DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video
 Terminals, and DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows support the Dig-
 ital Multinational character set.

 For clients in other languages, refer to the following European Soft-
 ware Product Descriptions:
 
 DEC MAILworks         SPD 26.J6.xx
 FRANÇAIS
 DEC MAILworks ITAL-   SPD 26.J7.xx
 IANO



                                  8

 


 DEC MAILworks         SPD 26.J8.xx
 DEUTSCH

 DEC MAILworks Documentation

 Documentation of the user procedures are included in the individual
 client kits. The server media kit includes system management documen-
 tation, as well as the software and installation instructions for the
 DEC MAILworks Server and the DEC MAILworks DECwindows and Video Ter-
 minals clients.

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals looks like VMSmail but com-
 municates directly with the VAX Message Router, and uses a rich pro-
 tocol which accesses the full range of messaging services. This client
 is co-located with the DEC MAILworks Server. It provides ordinary ter-
 minals with the same access to the services of DEC MAILworks. Because
 it shares the same server with the other DEC MAILworks clients, it can
 be used as a work-at-home alternative for users of more capable desk-
 top devices.

 Compatibility with VMSmail

 Users can migrate from the OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility (VMSmail) to
 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals. The command-line interface
 is a logical extension of the VMSmail command interface, and commands
 and services in DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals will feel
 familiar. Addresses, nickname logicals, and distribution lists used
 in VMSmail may be used in DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals.

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals can locate and view messages
 in the existing VMSmail file cabinet, and copy them into the DEC MAIL-
 works file cabinet.

 Editors

 The default editor is a simple text editor.

                                  9

 

 The OpenVMS-based user can choose from a number of different Digital
 editors as well as third-party editors. Any editor that can be called
 or spawned from VMSmail can be called or spawned from DEC MAILworks.

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows is a DECwindows implementation
 of the client software component of DEC MAILworks. It adheres to the
 DECwindows Style Guide and can be used either on a workstation that
 is a member of the same Local Area VAXcluster as the server software
 or remotely using an X11 display server device supported by Digital.

 Access from Other Platforms

 Since DEC MAILworks conforms to the DECwindows standards, users of de-
 vices which have X-servers available can access the mail software. In
 this case, the message composition and storage activities are not han-
 dled on the desktop device but on the DEC MAILworks platform. The win-
 dows display is handled by the desktop device. This feature provides
 access for additional desktop devices that conform to the DECwindows
 standards.

 Compatibility with VMSmail and DECwindows VMSmail

 Users can migrate from the OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility (VMSmail) or
 DECwindows VMSmail to DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows. The in-
 terface is similar to the DECwindows VMSmail interface; commands and
 services in DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows will feel familiar.
 Addresses, nickname logicals, and distribution lists used in VMSmail
 may be used in DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows.

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows can copy messages from the ex-
 isting VMSmail file cabinet into the DEC MAILworks file cabinet.

 Editors

 The default editor is a simple text editor.



                                 10

 

 The DECwindows user can choose from a number of different Digital ed-
 itors as well as third-party editors. Editors called or spawned from
 DECwindows VMSmail can be called or spawned from DEC MAILworks for Open-
 VMS DECwindows.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 39.59.01-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For the DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS to support any or all of the
 clients, and for DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 The DEC MAILworks Server delivers messages among all the users of any
 combination of the available DEC MAILworks clients which use this one
 server. Thus, all users on a single VAXcluster or on a single LAN may
 exchange messages via a single DEC MAILworks Server.

 The VAX Message Router Transfer Service is required to exchange mes-
 sages with users on other servers or other electronic messaging prod-
 ucts. It may be co-resident with the DEC MAILworks Server or may re-
 side on another DECnet node. However, VAX Message Router Directory Ser-
 vice (DDS) must be co-resident with the DEC MAILworks Server for Open-
 VMS. To communicate with VMSmail users, the VMSmail Gateway is also
 required.

 Gateway:

 o  VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway (single package)





                                 11

 

 PATHWORKS for OpenVMS (SPD 30.50.xx) and/or PATHWORKS for Macintosh
 (OpenVMS components) (SPD 31.53.xx) are required on OpenVMS to sup-
 port any DOS and/or Macintosh clients using PATHWORKS as the connec-
 tion between client and server. (Refer to the appropriate Software Prod-
 uct Description for relevant client components.)

 Most configurations will require VAX Message Router, and all sites mi-
 grating from or interacting with a VMSmail product will require the
 VMSmail Gateway. The DEC MAILworks Wide Area Network Server Package
 combines these underlying software components with the DEC MAILworks
 Server.

 For the Client DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows on the Worksta-
 tion:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System (and necessary components of OpenVMS
    DECwindows)

 o  DECnet-VAX

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 39.59.01-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of OpenVMS DECwindows.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Operation of the DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS product requires at
 least one DEC MAILworks Client or TeamLinks for Mail Client.

 Server Options

 Choose one of the following server options:

 o  DEC MAILworks Local Area Network Server Package

 This license package is used in customer situations where a LAN with
 multiple servers is needed for implementing Mail, VAX Message Router
 is not already owned, and it is not necessary to connect to other X.400
 messaging products.

                                 12

 

 Software Licenses: QP-00PAA-**
    Software Product Services: QT-YCZA*-**

 This package includes licenses for DEC MAILworks Server and VAX Mes-
 sage Router. Media and documentation update service for these compo-
 nents must be purchased separately. Refer to service offerings for DEC
 MAILworks Server for OpenVMS and to the Software Product Description
 for VAX Message Router (SPD 26.33.xx).

 o  DEC MAILworks Wide Area Network Server Package

 This package is used in multi-server configurations, or where there
 is a requirement to work with another messaging product

 Software Licenses: QL-YFUA*-**
    Software Product Services: QT-YCZA*-**

 This package includes licenses for DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS,
 VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, and VAX Message Router X.400 Gate-
 way. Media and documentation update service for these components must
 be purchased separately depending upon which components will be im-
 plemented. Refer to service offerings for DEC MAILworks Server for Open-
 VMS, plus one of the two gateway packages: VAX Message Router VMSmail
 Gateway (SPD 26.33.xx) or VAX Message Router X.400 Gateway (SPD 28.50.xx).
 Service on either gateway covers service for the Message Router it-
 self.

 Software Media: QA-YFUAA-H*

 This part number includes media and documentation for DEC MAILworks
 Server for OpenVMS, VAX Message Router, and VMSmail Gateway. Media and
 documentation for the VAX Message Router X.400 Gateway must be pur-
 chased separately.

 o  DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS

 This product implements DEC MAILworks Server on a node, VAXcluster,
 or Local Area Network where the VAX Message Router is already licensed,
 or where it is not necessary to connect to any other node or any other
 messaging product.

                                 13

 

 Software Licenses: QL-YCZ9*-**
    Software Media: QA-YCZA*-**
    Software Documentation: QA-YCZAA-GZ
    Software Product Services: QT-YCZA*-**

 Client Options

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows

 Software Licenses: QL-VZ7A*-**
 Software Media: Included with the server media
 Software Documentation: QA-VZ7AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VZ7A*-**

 DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals

 Software Licenses: QL-YHSA*-**
 Software Media: Included with the server media
 Software Documentation: QA-YHSAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YHSA*-*

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 The OpenVMS layered products support the OpenVMS License Management
 Facility.

 License units for the DEC MAILworks Server for OpenVMS are allocated
 on an Unlimited System Use.


                                 14

 

 License units for DEC MAILworks for OpenVMS Video Terminals and DEC
 MAILworks for OpenVMS DECwindows clients are allocated on an Unlim-
 ited System Use or Personal Use basis.

 The DEC MAILworks Wide Area Network Server Package licenses its com-
 ponent products on a clusterwide power rating basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
 ing System documentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 (R)  IBM and PROFS are registered trademarks of International Busi-
    ness Machines Corporation.

 (R)  KEYpak is a registered trademark of Keyword Office Technolo-
    gies, Ltd.

 (R)  Microsoft is a registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.

 (R)  TYMNET is a registered trademark of British Telecommunications
    PLC.

 [TM]Apple and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

 [TM]Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.


                                 15

 


 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, CDA, CI, DEC, DECnet, DECwin-
    dows, Digital, DX, MAILworks, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS,
    TeamLinks, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver,
    VAXstation, and WPS-PLUS are trademarks of Digital Equipment
    Corporation.


































                                 16
