 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX,         SPD 27.58.09
               Version 6.1

DESCRIPTION

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX helps maintain the data integrity of
OpenVMS RMS files and protects this file data from becoming lost or
inconsistent in the event of a number of failure scenarios.

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX provides the following three methods
of journaling:

o  After-image (AI) journaling provides the ability to redo a series
   of modifications to a file. This type of journaling helps recover
   lost or corrupted files. After-image recovery restores the contents
   of the file from the point of the latest backup copy of that file.

o  Before-image (BI) journaling provides the ability to undo a series
   of modifications to a file. This type of journaling allows a file
   to be returned to a previous known state. This is useful in the 
   event that a file is updated with erroneous data.

o  Recovery unit journaling helps maintain transaction integrity, where
   a transaction consists of a group of related operations that must
   be "atomic." That is, either all of the operations complete in their
   entirety or none of the operations complete. This type of journaling 
   helps prevent data from becoming inconsistent due to the incomplete 
   execution of a transaction.

Journaling is applied on a file-by-file basis. A file can be marked
for after-image, before-image, or recovery unit journaling, or any 
combination of these methods. Within a given application, any com-
bination of journaling methods can be used.

                              DIGITAL                    April 1994

                                                        AE-PY1KB-TE

 

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX stores the information necessary for
data recovery in files known as journals. Multiple files can use the
same journal.

RMS Recovery Unit Journaling and DECdtm Transactions

Transactions are defined and managed using the DECdtm transaction ser-
vices available within OpenVMS VAX. An RMS recovery unit is a set of
RMS record operations, performed in the context of a single process,
that are part of a transaction coordinated by DECdtm services. RMS re-
covery units are started automatically by RMS, and RMS recovery units
are committed or aborted along with the transaction of which they are
a part.

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX functions as a resource manager in trans-
actions that use DECdtm services. DECdtm services are implemented using 
a two-phase commit protocol as described in the OpenVMS VAX Operating 
System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx). Recovery unit 
journaling supports both a one-phase and a two-phase commit protocol.

Remote RMS files (files accessed via the DAP/FAL protocol) that are
marked for recovery unit journaling can be modified within a trans-
action, and will be included in the "atomic unit of work" defined by
the transaction. Also, the modifications made to RMS files marked for
recovery unit journaling can be combined with modifications made us-
ing any resource manager that supports DECdtm services into a single
"atomic" transaction.

The Recovery Unit Facility (RUF) services have been superseded by DECdtm
services. However, the RUF services are still supported and are trans-
parently emulated using the DECdtm services. Existing applications writ-
ten using the RUF services continue to work without recompilation or
relinking.






                                 2


 

Supported File Organizations

All RMS file organizations are supported by RMS Journaling for OpenVMS 
VAX. Any sequential, relative, or Prolog 3 indexed file can use journal-
ing. However, the following restrictions apply:

o  Prolog 1 and Prolog 2 indexed files are not supported by RMS 
   Journaling for OpenVMS VAX.

o  Sequential files have a maximum record size of 32,667 bytes.

o  Files marked for recovery unit journaling cannot be modified 
   with the DCL WRITE command.

o  Stream files cannot be modified in shared mode in a recovery unit.

o  Sequential files having VFC record format do not allow shared 
   access for recovery unit journaling.

When using recovery unit journaling with shared fixed-length sequential 
files, any abort processing overwrites records added to the recovery 
unit with zero bytes (null characters). This occurs because the record 
cannot be deleted from the file.

All files that are marked for journaling must reside on Files-11 Struc-
ture Level 2 disks. All journals must also reside on Files-11 Structure 
Level 2 disks. It is recommended that journals used for after-image 
journaling reside on a disk volume that is different from the disk 
volume where the data file that uses the journal resides. Journaling 
across a network or to a tape device is not supported.

Marking Files for Journaling

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX is enabled on a file-by-file basis. Files
marked for after-image, before-image, and recovery unit journaling are
enabled by using qualifiers to the DCL command SET FILE. Any combination 
of qualifiers can be used with a particular SET FILE command or series 
of SET FILE commands.

The most recent SET FILE command for a given file overrides all pre-
vious SET FILE commands for that file.

                                 3

 

Successful marking of an RMS file for journaling requires exclusive
access to the file specified in the SET FILE command. Exclusive ac-
cess means the RMS file being marked for journaling must be closed;
that is, application programs accessing that file must be shut down
before the file can be successfully marked for journaling.

No modifications to application programs are required for long-term
(after-image or before-image) journaling. Once a file has been marked
for long-term journaling, journal information will be written to the
journal each time the file is modified. The file must have been opened
after the issuance of the SET FILE command that marked the file for
journaling. All modifications to the file are recorded in the journal 
until the file is unmarked for journaling.

Modifications to application programs are required for recovery unit
journaling. At a minimum, the program must specify the start and end
of a recovery unit, using DECdtm transactions or recovery unit system 
services. When a file is marked for recovery unit journaling, all
modifications to that file made by the application must be within a
recovery unit.

Journal File Maintenance

After-image and before-image journals require periodic maintenance.
Because journals can expand indefinitely and a journal must reside on
a single volume set, occasional re-marking of a file for journaling
and all of the associated operations is required. This implies that
applications accessing RMS files marked for after-image or before-
image journaling, or both, must be stopped periodically for journal 
maintenance operations.

Recovering Data - Long-Term Journaling

In the case of long-term (either after-image or before-image) journal-
ing, data recovery is done using the RMS Recovery utility. Recovery is 
on a file-by-file basis and must be explicitly requested; it is not 
done automatically. The RMS Recovery utility is invoked at DCL level 
to either roll forward or roll back changes to the file. The Recovery 
utility requires exclusive access to the file being recovered.

                                 4

 

Changes can be rolled forward or rolled backward until a time specified 
by the user.

Recovering Data - Recovery Unit Journaling

No user intervention is required to roll back a recovery unit that is
incomplete. The rollback of an incomplete transaction is started and
completed automatically the next time a user attempts to access the
file.

Interaction with the Backup Utility

To recover data using after-image journaling, a backup copy of the file
must be available. This copy must be made with the Backup utility (BACKUP); 
a copy of the file made with the COPY or CONVERT command cannot be used.
The backup copy of the file must be made after the SET FILE/AI_JOURNAL
command is issued but before the file is opened for update. BACKUP re-
quires exclusive access to files being backed up. No user or application 
program can access the file until BACKUP is finished.

The use of BACKUP/RECORD is recommended. If the file is then rolled
forward, the modifications that have been made since the most recent
backup are applied.

If a backup copy of a file is rolled forward with the RMS Recovery 
utility, users must re-mark the file for after-image journaling with 
the SET FILE/AI_JOURNAL command. A backup copy of that file must be 
made after it has been marked for after-image journaling and before 
application updates are allowed.

A backup copy of the file must be re-marked for journaling if it is
to be used in place of the original file.

Interaction with Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX can be used in conjunction with 
after-image journaling. After-image journaling helps recover data 
in the following cases not addressed by Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS 
VAX:

o  Mistaken deletion of a file by a system user or operator

o  Corruption of the file system pointers

                                 5

 

o  RMS file corruption due to a software error or incomplete bucket
   write operations to an indexed file

Failures Not Addressed by RMS Recovery Unit Journaling

Recovery unit journaling alone does not provide recovery when a multi-
block bucket write operation to an indexed file is in progress, leaving 
the bucket in the indexed file in a corrupt state. Use after-image
journaling in conjunction with recovery unit journaling to recover from
the following failed multiblock bucket write operations:

o  Failure of the VAX host during a multiblock write operation, such
   as a system crash, halt, power failure, or system shutdown.

o  Permanent loss of path to the disk during a multiblock write 
   operation.

o  Cancellation of a multiblock write operation in progress. This 
   operation is possible only with disks that use the DUDRIVER or 
   that access a disk drive through the MSCP server. Other disk 
   drives ignore the cancellation of I/O and are not affected.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Descrip-
tion (SPD 25.01.xx) for hardware requirements and supported processors.

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported without restrictions when in-
stalled on any valid and licensed VAXcluster* configuration. The HARD-
WARE REQUIREMENTS section of this product's Software Product Descrip-
tion and the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description 
(SPD 25.01.xx) list any special hardware required by this product.

*  VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster 
   Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet,
   DSSI, FDDI, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

                                 6

 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 is an OpenVMS System In-
tegrated Product that requires OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1.

For additional information, refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System 
Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

OpenVMS VAX Tailoring

For OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 the following OpenVMS VAX class is required
for full functionality of this system integrated product:

o  OpenVMS VAX Required Save Set

For more information about OpenVMS VAX classes and tailoring, refer
to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description 
(SPD 25.01.xx).

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version
of this product may be different from the requirements for the current 
version.

DISTRIBUTION AND INSTALLATION

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 is a System Integrated Prod-
uct that is distributed and installed with the OpenVMS VAX operating
system Version 6.1.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VDVA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VDVAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VDVA*-**

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
   censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

                                 7

 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
local Digital office.

License Management Facility

This system integrated product supports the OpenVMS License Manage-
ment Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
Use basis.

For more information about the License Management Facility, refer to
the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description 
(SPD 25.01.xx) or the OpenVMS License Management Utility Manual of 
the OpenVMS VAX documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
formation, contact your local Digital office.










                                 8

 


SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
Addendum of this SPD.

The above information is valid at the time of this release. Please con-
tact your local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

© 1994 Digital Equipment Corporation.
  All rights reserved.

[TM] The DIGITAL logo, CI, DECdtm, Digital, MSCP, OpenVMS, VAX,
     and VAXcluster are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.




















                                 9
