 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  OpenVMS VAX Operating System,          SPD 25.01.39
               Version 6.1

Note: Digital bases a great deal of software development on national
and international standards. To emphasize this commitment to software
standards, Digital has revised the name of the VMS operating system.
OpenVMS VAX is the new name for this operating system software. This
is strictly a name change, and has no impact on applications.

DESCRIPTION

OpenVMS VAX is a general-purpose multiuser operating system that sup-
ports VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, and VAXserver series computers in both
development and production environments. OpenVMS VAX can be tuned to
perform well in a wide variety of applications, including compute-
intensive, Input/Output (I/O)-intensive, real-time, and combinations 
of those and other environments. (Actual performance depends on the 
type of VAX computer, available physical memory, and the number and 
type of disk and tape drives on the system.)

OpenVMS VAX has well-integrated networking, distributed computing, 
multiprocessing, and windowing capabilities. OpenVMS VAX contains 
extensive features that promote ease-of-use, improve the productivity 
of programmers, and facilitate system management.

OpenVMS VAX is an open software environment that supports key standards 
such as OSF/Motif, POSIX, XPG3, and the OSF Distributed Computing En-
vironment (DCE). The right to use POSIX for OpenVMS VAX and the DCE Run 
Time Services for OpenVMS VAX is bundled with the OpenVMS VAX Operating 
System Base License. DECwindows Motif is available exclusively as a 
separate layered product.


                              DIGITAL                    May 1994

                                                        

 

OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 includes a number of new features, enhance-
ments and expanded hardware support. One of the new features is the
ability to use node names larger than 6 characters, or "full names".
Full names services and utilities in OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 provide:

-  Underlying support for network protocols using hierarchical 
   naming, such as DECnet/OSI and TCP/IP

-  Use of node names up to 255 characters in length, both inter-
   actively and within applications

-  Elimination of the requirement that SCSnode and DECnet node 
   names be identical

-  Support for the use of full names in PROXY and INTRUSION system 
   services

OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 continues to provide DECnet-VAX as a System
Integrated Product. DECnet-VAX is based on Phase IV of the Digital 
Network Architecture. OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 also supports DECnet/OSI 
as a layered product. DECnet/OSI is based on Phase V of the Digital 
Network Architecture.

In addition, OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 includes:

o  POLYCENTER Software Installation (PCSI) software for layered 
   products,

o  Reintegrated hardware support from the OpenVMS VAX V5.5-2H4 
   release including support for:

   -  VAX 4000 Models 100A, 500A, 600A, and 700A

   -  KZDDA, on a MicroVAX 3100 Model 90

   -  DEFTA (FDDI to TURBOchannel) and DEFQA (FDDI to Q-bus) adapters

   -  SCSI-2 Tagged Command Queuing support for the StorageWorks RAID
      Array 110 Subsystem

o  Storage management enhancements,

o  Distributed queue enhancements,

                                 2

 

o  RSM Laddriver Version 3.1,

o  LMF enhancements,

o  Enhanced Run-Time Libraries (Ada, Fortran, COBOL, DEC C, DECthreads,
   Pascal),

o  Per-disk licensing for Volume Shadowing.

Refer to the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 New Features Manual for details
on these new features and enhancements.

Support for new peripherals and adapters will allow customers to take
advantage of the most current hardware technology. Refer to the Pe-
ripheral Devices section in this Software Product Description (SPD)
for details.

User Environment

Users can access OpenVMS VAX by using the English-like DIGITAL Command 
Language (DCL), the command language for OpenVMS VAX that is supplied 
with the system. DCL commands take the form of a command name followed 
by parameters and qualifiers. DCL commands provide information about 
the system, initiate system utilities, and initiate user programs. 
OpenVMS VAX prompts users to enter required DCL parameters, making it 
easy for novice users to use.

Users can enter DCL commands at a terminal or include them in command
procedures. Command procedures can run interactively or be submitted
to a batch queue for deferred execution.

Information on DCL and OpenVMS VAX utilities is available through on-
line Help. Online Help includes summary operational information on all
aspects of system operation.

A number of tools and utilities are integrated into the OpenVMS VAX
operating system. This section briefly describes some of these tools
and utilities.



                                 3

 

Text Processing

The Extensible Versatile Editor (EVE), one of several text editors 
supplied by Digital, is the default editor for OpenVMS VAX. EVE allows
users to insert, change, and delete text quickly. Written in the DEC
Text Processing Utility Language (DECTPU), EVE is a full-screen editor 
that allows users to scroll through text on a terminal screen. EVE 
provides an EDT-style keypad, allowing EDT users to transition to EVE 
easily. EDT is also supported by OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1.

Mail Utility

The Mail utility allows users to send messages to any other user on
the system. Multinode operation is available if DECnet is installed
and licensed on each participating node.

Command-Level Programming

Command-level programming allows users to create special files called
command procedures that contain a series of DCL commands. When users
execute a command procedure, the system processes the commands in the
command procedure. Users can also use special DCL commands to assign
symbolic names, evaluate numerical and logical expressions, accept 
parameters, communicate interactively with the user invoking the com-
mand procedure, perform conditional (IF-THEN-ELSE) and branching (GOTO)
logic, and handle error conditions.

User Environment Tailoring

Users can customize the computing environment with user login command
procedures, shorthand commands, binding of commands to function keys,
and command recall and editing.

Terminal Fallback Facility (TFF)

This facility allows Digital 7-bit terminals, such as the VT100, to
input and output the DEC Multinational Character Set (MCS). Specific
tables allow conversion for a number of different 7-bit National Re-
placement Character sets, such as French, German, Spanish, and Swedish,
to MCS. TFF also allows character composition on terminals that do not
have the compose key.

                                 4

 

National Character Set (NCS) Utility

This utility allows users to define non-ASCII string collating sequences
and to define conversion functions. Conversion functions use conversion 
algorithms to change an input string; for example, to change lowercase 
characters to uppercase. NCS also allows RMS indexed files to be collated 
using user-specified collating sequences.

Program Development Environment

OpenVMS VAX provides a comprehensive set of tools for developing programs 
including editors (for editing source programs), a linker, a librarian, 
and a symbolic debugger. The assembly-level VAX MACRO language is sup-
plied with OpenVMS VAX. Tools available to the OpenVMS VAX programmer 
include the following:

Language and Run-Time Library Support

OpenVMS VAX includes several run-time libraries which provide string
manipulation, I/O routines, I/O conversion, terminal independent screen
handling, date and time formatting routines, common mathematical func-
tions, signaling and condition handling, and other general purpose func-
tions. These routines can be called from programs written in such lan-
guages as VAX MACRO, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX BLISS-32 Implementation
Language, VAX C, DEC C, DEC C++, VAX COBOL, VAX DIBOL, VAX FORTRAN,
VAX Pascal, VAX PL/I, and VAX SCAN.

Major OpenVMS VAX languages (including those listed above) adhere to
the VAX common calling standard, meaning that routines written in any
of these languages can directly call routines written in any other 
language. Development of applications using multiple languages is 
simple and straightforward.

All routines in the Run-Time Library follow the OpenVMS VAX calling
standard and condition handling conventions and most are contained 
within a shareable image.




                                 5

 

At a lower level, programs can call system services directly for se-
curity, event flag, asynchronous system trap, logical name, record and
file I/O, process control, timer, time conversion, condition handling,
lock management, and memory management services. Again, system services 
use the OpenVMS VAX calling standard and condition handling conventions.

OpenVMS VAX supports execution of non-privileged images created on ear-
lier versions of VMS. Recompiling and relinking are typically not re-
quired.

DECthreads

OpenVMS VAX includes a user-mode multithreading capability referred
to as DECthreads. DECthreads provides an implementation of draft 4 of
the proposed POSIX 1003.4a standard and is Digital's implementation
of the Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) Threads as defined by
the Open Software Foundation. DECthreads is a library of run-time rou-
tines that allows the user to create multiple threads of execution 
within a single address space. Multithreading capability allows 
computation activity to be overlapped with I/O activity. Synchroniza-
tion elements, such as mutexes and condition variables, are provided 
to help ensure that shared resources are accessed correctly. DECthreads 
also provides multiple scheduling policies for scheduling and priori-
tizing threads.

Librarian Utility

The Librarian utility permits efficient storage of object modules, 
macros, Help text, or any general record-oriented information in cen-
tral, easily accessible files. Object module libraries are searched 
by the linker when the linker finds a reference it cannot resolve in 
one of its input files. Macro libraries are searched by the assembler 
when the assembler finds a macro that is not defined in the input file.

Debugger

The debugger allows users to trace program execution as well as dis-
play and modify register contents using the same symbols that are in
the source code.

                                 6

 

RMS File Utilities

RMS file utilities allow users to analyze the internal structure of
an RMS file and to determine the most appropriate set of parameters
for an RMS file. They can also be used to create, efficiently load,
and reclaim space in an RMS file. Refer to the Operating System En-
vironment section of this Software Product Description for more in-
formation on RMS.

File Differences Utility

This utility compares the contents of two files and lists those re-
cords that do not match.

System Management Environment

OpenVMS VAX provides a variety of tools to aid the system manager in
configuring and maintaining an optimal system. Tools available for 
the system manager include the following:

InfoServer Tape Backup

OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 introduced InfoServer Tape Backup, which al-
lows system managers to boot online OpenVMS from CD-ROM media served
from the InfoServer and perform a backup command using the online 
Backup utility. Please refer to the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 Release 
Notes for details.

Batch and Print Queuing System

OpenVMS VAX provides an extensive batch and print queuing system that
allows the creation of queues and the setup of spooled devices in or-
der to process noninteractive workloads in parallel with timesharing
or real-time jobs.

On the OpenVMS VAX operating system, batch and print operations sup-
port two types of queues: generic queues and execution queues. A 
generic queue is an intermediate queue that holds a job until an 
appropriate execution queue becomes available to initiate the job. 

                                 7

 

An execution queue is a queue through which the job (either print or 
batch) is actually processed or executed.

The system queues batch jobs for execution. The system manager can reg-
ulate the number of queues and the number of streams per queue (that
is, the number of batch jobs in the queue that can execute concurrently).

Both generic and execution batch queues can have different attributes,
such as the maximum CPU time permitted, working set size, and priority. 
Facilities are provided for starting and stopping queues, and for 
starting and stopping jobs in a queue. Because multiple execution queues 
can be associated with a generic queue, OpenVMS VAX enables load bal-
ancing across available CPUs in a VAXcluster system, increasing overall 
system throughput.

Print queues, both generic and execution, together with queue manage-
ment facilities, provide versatile print capabilities, including sup-
port of ANSI and PostScript file printing.

Sites requiring sophisticated batch job dependency checking and job
restart capabilities should refer to the DECscheduler for OpenVMS VAX
Software Product Description (SPD 32.19.xx).

Accounting Utility

For accounting purposes, OpenVMS VAX keeps records of the system re-
source usage. These statistics include processor and memory utiliza-
tion, I/O counts, print symbiont line counts, image activation counts,
and process termination records. OpenVMS VAX Accounting allows various 
reports to be generated using this data.

Audit Analysis Utility

For security auditing purposes, OpenVMS VAX selectively records crit-
ical security-relevant events in the system security audit log file.
These records contain the date and time the event occurred, the iden-
tity of the associated user process, and information specific to each
event type. This information is intended to aid the system manager in


                                 8

 

maintaining system security and to deter possible intruders. The Open-
VMS Audit Analysis utility allows various reports to be generated from
this data.

Autoconfigure/Autogen Utilities

OpenVMS VAX provides utilities to automatically configure the available 
devices into the system tables and to set system operational parameters 
based on the detected peripheral and memory configuration. There is no 
need for a traditional "system generation" process when the hardware 
configuration is expanded or otherwise modified.

Backup Utility

The Backup utility provides full volume and incremental file backup
for file-structured, mounted volumes and volume sets. Individual files,
selected directory structures, or all files on a volume set can be backed
up and restored. Files can be selected by various dates (creation, mod-
ification, etc.). Files can be backed up to magnetic tape, magnetic disk, 
or WORM (Write Once Read Many) optical disk. With standalone BACKUP,
system managers can back up and restore system disks. Standalone BACKUP
can also be used during the installation of the OpenVMS VAX operating 
system. The Backup utility can be used to restore a save set or list the 
contents of a save set.

Analyze Disk Structure Utility

The Analyze Disk Structure utility compares the structure information
on a disk volume with the contents of the disk, prints the structure
information, and permits changes to that information. It also can be
used to repair errors that are detected in the file structure of disks.

Monitor Utility

The Monitor utility permits the system manager to monitor different
classes of system-wide performance data including process activity,
I/O activity, memory management activity, vector processing activity,
and two-phase commit transaction activity at specified intervals. The
data may be displayed as it is gathered or saved in a file for later
use.

                                 9

 

License Management Facility (LMF)

The License Management Facility (LMF) allows the system manager to eas-
ily determine which software products are licensed on a standalone VAX
and on each of the VAX systems in a VAXcluster system. It allows the
system manager to select which subset of systems or users in a VAX-
cluster may use the software products. LMF also provides an audit trail
that allows the system manager to track license changes that occur within
a VAXcluster system. Refer to the VAXcluster Support section in this
Software Product Description for more information on VAXcluster systems.

System Management Utility (SYSMAN)

SYSMAN allows the system manager to define a system management environ-
ment so that operations performed from the local VAX system can be
executed on all other VAX systems in the defined environment. The en-
vironment may include VAX systems in a DECnet-VAX network or in a VAX-
cluster system.

Operations

OpenVMS VAX enables varying levels of privilege to be assigned to dif-
ferent operators. In addition, system generated messages can be routed
to different terminals based on their interest to the console operators, 
tape librarians, security administrators, and system managers. Operators
can use the Help Message utility to obtain online message descriptions.

Tailoring Facility

Tailoring allows the system manager to remove groups of OpenVMS VAX
files from the system disk or add groups of OpenVMS VAX files that were
formerly removed. The VMSTAILOR program supplies step-by-step instructions. 
The DECW$TAILOR program is used to add or remove groups of DECwindows 
display server and font files from the system disk. (DECW$MOTIF_TAILOR 
is available in the DECwindows Motif layered product to add or remove 
DECwindows Motif files.)


                                10

 

Due to space constraints, there is no guarantee that layered products
can be installed if user files reside on the system disk.

Application programs will execute as long as the layered products or
optional software products do not depend on optional software run-time
components that are not supported in the tailored environment. Refer
to the product's System Support Addendum (SSA) for the optional prod-
ucts supported in the tailored environment.

Security

OpenVMS VAX plans to maintain the C2 security rating achieved for 
Version 6.0, in the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 release via the NCSC RAMP 
program. OpenVMS VAX provides a rich set of mechanisms to control user
access to system-controlled data structures and devices that store 
information. OpenVMS VAX employs a Reference Monitor concept that en-
forces the system security policy by mediating all access attempts be-
tween subjects, such as user processes, and security-relevant system
objects, such as files. OpenVMS VAX also provides a system security
audit log file that optionally records the results of all object access 
attempts. The audit log can also be used to capture information regard-
ing a wide variety of other security-relevant events.

User account information is maintained by the system manager in the
system user authorization file (SYSUAF). When creating user accounts
with the Authorize utility, the system manager assigns the privileges
and quotas associated with each user account. The system manager also
assigns a user name, password, and unique user identification code (UIC)
to each account. Optionally, additional identifiers can be assigned to 
each account, permitting users to belong to multiple overlapping groups 
or projects. Account use may be limited by time of day, day of week, 
and type of access (such as local, remote, network, or batch).

To log in and gain access to the system, the user must supply a valid
user name and password. The password is encoded and does not appear
on terminal displays. Users can change their password voluntarily, or
the system manager can selectively enforce how frequently passwords



                                11

 

change, along with minimum password length, or optional use of ran-
domly generated passwords.

Additionally, OpenVMS VAX provides a password dictionary filter that
screens password choices for common words, and a user password history 
filter that prevents users from reusing passwords that they have used 
within the last year. In addition to these built-in filters, a site
can design and install its own filter to screen passwords against a 
site-specific password policy.

The system password hash algorithm can also be replaced with a private 
algorithm for those sites that have contractual obligations to use 
specific public or private password encryption algorithms. This feature 
can be enabled on a per-user, per-password basis.

Login security includes break-in detection, which allows terminals to
be disabled when password guessing is detected, and a secure login path,
which can be used to thwart Trojan horse attacks against local terminals. 
Additionally, a system password may be associated with dial-in terminal 
lines to prevent the display of any operating system specific identifi-
cation that might yield clues to possible attack methodologies. When a 
user logs in, the system also displays a message stating when the last 
login for the account occurred and the number of failed attempts to log 
in since the last successful login.

Every security-relevant system object is labeled with the UIC of its
owner (normally the user who created the object) along with a simple
protection mask. The owner UIC consists of two fields, the user field
and a group field. System objects also have associated with them a pro-
tection mask that allows read, write, execute, and delete access to
be selectively granted to the object's owner, group, privileged system 
users, to all other users. In addition, system objects can be protected 
with access control lists to allow access to be selectively granted or 
denied to a list of individual users, groups, or identifiers. Access 
control lists can also be used to audit access attempts to critical 
system objects.

OpenVMS VAX applies full protection to the following system objects:

o  Capabilities

                                12

 

o  Common Event Flag Clusters

o  Devices

o  Files

o  Group Global Sections

o  Logical Name Tables

o  Batch/Print Queues

o  Resource Domains

o  Security Classes

o  System Global Sections

o  Volumes (ODS-2)

In addition to the protection mechanisms previously described, OpenVMS 
VAX provides a security attribute defaulting mechanism, in the form
of security template profiles. These template profiles are referenced
whenever a new object is created and provide a means of associating
default security information with each system object class except files.
Protection information for files is inherited from the previous version 
of an existing file, the parent directory, or the creating process' 
default protection.

Data scavenge protection can be enabled selectively in the form of file
high-water marking and can erase on delete attributes. These attributes
ensure that file contents cannot be read after a file has been deleted.
The system manager can also enforce file erasure on a per-volume basis. 
The disk erasure pattern can also be replaced with a private pattern 
for those sites that have contractual obligations to use a specific 
pattern.

Security auditing is provided to allow for the selective recording of
security related events. This auditing information can be separately
directed to security operator terminals (alarms) or to the system se-
curity audit log file (audits). Each audit record contains the date
and time of the event, the identity of the associated user process,
and additional information specific to each event.

                                13

 

OpenVMS VAX provides security auditing for the following events:

o  Login and logout

o  Login failures and break-in attempts

o  Object creation, access, deaccess, and deletion, selectable by use
   of privilege, type of access, and on individual objects (ACL)

o  Authorization database changes

o  Network logical link connections and terminations for DECnet-VAX,
   DECnet/OSI, DECwindows, IPC, and SYSMAN

o  Use of identifiers as privileges

o  Installed image additions, deletions, and replacements

o  Volume mounts and dismounts

o  Use of the Network Control Program utility

o  Use or failed use of individual privileges

o  Use of individual process control system services

o  System parameter changes

o  System time changes and recalibrations

Note: No system can provide complete security and Digital cannot guar-
antee system security. However, Digital continually strives to enhance
the security capabilities of its products. Customers are strongly ad-
vised to follow industry recognized security practices.

Operating System Environment

Extended Physical Addressing

The previous version of OpenVMS VAX extended the physical address space
from 30 bits to 32 bits. The OpenVMS VAX operating system can provide
3.5 GB of physical memory, and .5 GB of I/O and adapter space. This
capability enables large applications and workloads to access the huge

                                14

 

amounts of physical memory that they require. The following table lists
the VAX processors that support this extended physical addressing:

___________________________________________________________________
                         Accessible      
                          Physical              I/O and
System                     Memory               Adapter Space
___________________________________________________________________

VAX 6000 model 600        1.25 GB               .5 GB

VAX 7000 series           3.5 GB                .5 GB

VAX 10000 series          3.5 GB                .5 GB
___________________________________________________________________

Process and Scheduling

The basic unit of execution in OpenVMS VAX is the process. A process
consists of individual address space and registers known as "context",
and code called an "executable image." The context identifies the pro-
cess and describes its current state. Executable images consist of 
system programs and user programs that have been compiled and linked.

The maximum number of concurrent processes is 8,192 per VAX system.

Processes receive processor time to execute their images based on the
priority of the process. Thirty-two priorities are recognized: pri-
orities 0 to 15 are for time-sharing processes and applications that
are not time critical (four is the typical default for time-sharing
processes), and priorities 16 to 31 are for real-time processes.

Each time an event such as an I/O interrupt occurs, the system first
services the event and then passes control to the highest priority 
process ready to execute. The system automatically adjusts priorities 
of processes whose base priority is in the range of 0 to 15 to favor 
I/O-bound and interactive processes, but the system will not adjust 
the priority of a process in the range of 16 to 31.

                                15

 

Real-time processes can be assigned higher priorities to ensure that
they receive processor time whenever they are ready to execute. Real-
time processes are scheduled pre-emptively; that is, if a real-time
process is ready to execute, it is given the processor immediately,
unless a real-time process with a higher priority is ready to execute.

OpenVMS VAX uses paging and swapping mechanisms to provide sufficient
virtual memory for multiple concurrently executing processes. Also,
paging and swapping is provided for processes whose memory require-
ments exceed available physical memory. The maximum working set size
is 1,000,000 pages of memory.

Programmers can exercise control over memory management from within
an image. An image executing in a real-time process, for example, can
inhibit paging or swapping of critical code and data.

Peripheral devices can be managed by the system or allocated by in-
dividual processes. At least one disk must be a system disk. Other 
disks can be designated as data disks for the general use of all users 
logging in to the system or for a specific group of users. The system 
controls interactive terminals and one or more printers.

Vector Processing

A single data item, having one value, is known as a scalar value. A
group of related scalar values, or elements, all of the same data type,
is known as a vector.

An extension to the VAX architecture defines an optional design for
integrated vector processing that has been adopted by several VAX 
systems. The VAX vector architecture includes sixteen 64-bit vector 
registers (V0 through V15), each containing 64 elements; vector control
registers; vector function units; and a set of vector instructions.
VAX vector instructions transfer data between the vector registers and
memory, perform integer and floating-point arithmetic, and execute pro-
cessor control functions.

A more detailed description of the VAX vector architecture, vector reg-
isters, and vector instructions appears in the VAX MACRO and Instruction 
Set Reference Manual.

                                16

 

The OpenVMS VAX operating system provides fully shared, multiprogramming
support for VAX vector processing systems. By default, OpenVMS VAX loads
vector support code when initializing vector-present systems, but does
not load it when initializing vector-absent systems. A system manager
can control this behavior by using the system parameter VECTOR_PROC, as 
described in the OpenVMS VAX documentation.

The presence of vector support code in a system has little effect on
processes running in a scalar-only system, or scalar processes running 
in a vector-present system. If many processes must compete simultaneously 
for vector processor resources in a system, the system manager can main-
tain good performance by adjusting system resources and process quotas 
as indicated in the OpenVMS VAX documentation.

The OpenVMS VAX operating system makes the services of the vector pro-
cessor available to system users by means of a software abstract known
as a capability. A system manager can restrict the use of the vector
processor to users holding a particular identifier by associating an
access control list (ACL) entry with the CAPABILITY object VECTOR.

The VAX Vector Instruction Emulation Facility (VVIEF) is a standard
feature of the OpenVMS VAX operating system that allows vectorized 
applications to be written and debugged in a VAX system in which 
vector processors are not available. VVIEF emulates the VAX vector 
processing environment, including the non-privileged VAX vector in-
structions and the OpenVMS VAX vector system services, as described 
in the OpenVMS VAX documentation. Use of VVIEF is restricted to user 
mode code.

DECdtm Services

The DECdtm services embedded in the OpenVMS VAX operating system sup-
port fully distributed databases using a "two-phase commit" protocol.
The DECdtm services provide the technology and features for distributed
processing, ensuring both transaction and database integrity across
multiple resource managers. Updates to distributed databases occur as
a single "all or nothing" unit of work, regardless of where the data
physically resides. This ensures consistency of distributed data.



                                17

 

DECdtm services allow applications to define "global transactions" 
that may include calls to any of a number of Digital data management 
products. Regardless of the mix of data management products used, the 
global transaction will either commit or abort. OpenVMS VAX is unique 
in providing transaction processing functionality as base operating 
system services.

DECdtm Features

o  Embedded OpenVMS VAX system services support the DECtp architecture, 
   providing features and the technology for distributed transaction 
   processing.

o  DECdtm allows multiple disjoint resources to be updated atomically.
   These resources can be either physically disjointed (for example,
   on different CPUs) or logically disjointed (for example, in dif-
   ferent databases on the same CPU).

o  DECdtm encourages robust application development. Applications can
   be written to ensure that data is never in an inconsistent state,
   even in the event of system failures.

o  As an OpenVMS VAX service, DECdtm can be called using any Digital
   TP monitor (ACMS or DECintact) or database product (DBMS, Rdb, RMS).
   This is useful for applications using several database products.

Interprocess Communication

OpenVMS VAX provides a number of facilities for applications that con-
sist of multiple cooperating processes:

o  Mailboxes are virtual devices that allow processes to communicate
   with queued messages.

o  Shared memory sections on a single processor or a symmetrical multi-
   processing (SMP) system permit multiple processes to access shared
   address space concurrently.

o  Common event flags provide simple synchronization.

                                18

 

o  The lock manager provides a more comprehensive enqueue/dequeue fa-
   cility with multi-level locks, values, and ASTs (Asynchronous System 
   Traps).

Symmetric Multiprocessing

OpenVMS VAX provides symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) support for multi-
processing VAX systems. SMP is a form of tightly coupled multiprocessing 
in which all processors perform operations simultaneously. The processors 
can perform operations in all VAX access modes (user, supervisor, exec-
utive, and kernel).

OpenVMS VAX SMP configurations consist of multiple central processing 
units executing code from a single shared memory address space. Users 
and processes share a single copy of OpenVMS VAX. SMP also provides 
simultaneous shared access to common data in global sections to all 
processors. OpenVMS VAX SMP dynamically balances the execution of all 
processes across all available processors based on process priority.

SMP support is an integral part of OpenVMS VAX and is provided trans-
parently to the user. Because an SMP system is a single system entity,
it is configured into a network and VAXcluster systems as a single node.

Networking Facilities

DECnet-VAX offers task-to-task communications, file management, down-
line system and task loading, network command terminals, and network
resource sharing capabilities using the Digital Network Architecture
(DNA) protocols.

DECnet/OSI offers the same networking capabilities as DECnet-VAX. In
addition, DECnet/OSI provides new DECnet features such as Extended Ad-
dressing, and downline load performance enhancements. DECnet/OSI also
includes the integration of protocols to support OSI applications.

OpenVMS VAX provides device drivers for all Digital Ethernet adapters
listed in the Peripheral Devices section of this SPD. Application pro-
grammers can use the QIO system service to communicate with other sys-
tems connected via the Ethernet using either Ethernet or IEEE 802.3

                                19

 

packet format. Simultaneous use of Digital Ethernet and IEEE 802.3 
protocols is supported on any Digital Ethernet adapter.

Terminal Server Products

Digital's terminal server products can be used for terminal server 
access to OpenVMS VAX. When used in a VAXcluster system environment, 
terminal servers automatically distribute users at login time across 
the available VAX systems.

OpenVMS VAX can also establish a connection to other devices (such as
printers) attached to such terminal servers.

Reliability

The system handles hardware errors as transparently as possible while
maintaining data integrity and providing sufficient information to 
diagnose the cause of the error. The system limits the effects of an 
error by first determining if the error is fatal. If the error is 
fatal, then the process that encountered the error is aborted. If the
error occurs in system context, then the current OpenVMS VAX session
is shut down. If the error is not fatal, then recovery actions per-
tinent to the error are executed and current operation is continued.

In all cases, information relevant to the error is collected and put
in the error log file for later analysis. Hardware errors include the
following categories:

o  Processor errors (these include processor soft errors, processor
   hard errors, processor machine checks, adapter errors).

o  Memory errors. These errors can be unrecoverable (hard) errors or
   recoverable (soft) errors. The system examines memory at startup
   time and does not use any pages found to be bad. During system 
   operation, the hardware transparently corrects all single-bit 
   mem ory errors for those systems with ECC memory. An unrecoverable 
   error causes the memory page on which the error occurred to be added
   to the bad page list. If the page has not been modified, system op-
   eration continues with a new copy of the page.

                                20

 

o  Correctable memory errors. A primary cause of these correctable 
   memory errors is Alpha particle radiation. On some processors when 
   correctable memory errors occur the memory controller only corrects
   the data returned to the CPU or I/O controller. The actual data in
   memory is left with the error intact. Subsequent read operations
   will cause correction cycles to occur and in most cases an inter-
   rupt to report the error. On many of these processors OpenVMS VAX
   monitors the occurrence of correctable memory errors and in almost
   all cases is able to remove the error condition by rewriting the
   data in memory. Rewriting the data causes the data to be corrected
   in the memory location. If the cause of the error is not transient,
   and the error condition persists, OpenVMS VAX will attempt to move
   the data from the existing page which contains the error and move
   the data to a new page. The original page is then retired from use.

Other failures include:

o  Operating system errors (system-detected inconsistencies or 
   architectural errors in system context)

o  User errors

o  I/O errors

The system logs all processor errors, all operating system errors 
detected through internal consistency checks, all double-bit memory 
errors (and a summary of corrected single-bit errors), and all I/O 
errors. (Double-bit errors are detected only on those VAX and MicroVAX
systems with ECC memory.)

If the system is shut down because of an unrecoverable hardware or soft-
ware error, a dump of physical memory is written. The dump includes the 
contents of the processor registers. The OpenVMS VAX System Dump Analyzer 
utility is provided for analyzing memory dumps.





                                21

 

Power Failures

If power fails, the system shuts down automatically. When power is re-
stored, the system restarts automatically and resumes processing at
the point of interruption if the system has a time-of-day clock and a 
memory battery backup unit, if the contents of memory are still valid,
and if the system is set to permit automatic rebooting.

The system restarts devices and communications lines. All I/O operations 
in progress, including magnetic tape I/O operations, are restarted. On 
request, programs can be notified of power restoration. An optional
battery-operated hardware clock resets the date and time of day when
the system restarts. If the system does not have a battery backup unit,
or if the memory contents are not valid on power restoration, the sys-
tem will reboot automatically if the system is set to permit automatic
rebooting.

If, for any reason, after a power failure the system disk does not come
back on line within a specific time after the CPU regains power, the
system shuts down.

Input/Output

The QIO system service provides a direct interface to the operating
system's I/O routines. These services are available from within most
VAX programming languages and can be used to perform low-level I/O 
operations efficiently with a minimal amount of system overhead for 
time-critical applications.

Device drivers execute I/O instructions to transfer data to and from
the device and to communicate directly with an I/O device. Each type
of I/O device requires its own driver. Digital supplies drivers for
all devices supported by the OpenVMS VAX operating system and provides
QIO system service routines to access the special device dependent 
features available in many of these devices. Users with special needs 
or non-OpenVMS VAX supported devices can write their own device drivers.
The OpenVMS VAX Device Support Manual and the OpenVMS VAX Device Sup-
port Reference Manual in the OpenVMS VAX Standard + Optional Documen-
tation set describe how to write device drivers.



                                22

 

The OpenVMS VAX operating system supports a variety of disk and tape
peripheral devices, as well as terminals, networks, mailboxes (virtual 
devices for interprocess communication), and more general I/O devices. 
These I/O devices include line printers, card readers, and general 
purpose data acquisition devices such as the DRB32.

Record Management Services (RMS)

RMS is a set of I/O services that help application programs to process 
and manage files and records. Although it is primarily intended to 
provide a comprehensive software interface to mass storage devices,
RMS also supports device independent access to unit-record devices.

RMS supports sequential, relative, and indexed file organizations in
fixed-length and variable-length record formats. RMS also supports byte
stream formats for sequential file organization. RMS record access modes
provide access to records in four ways: sequentially, directly by key
value, directly by relative record number, and directly by record file
address. RMS also supports block I/O operations for various performance-
critical applications that may require user-defined file organizations
and record formats.

RMS promotes safe and efficient file sharing by providing multiple file
access modes, automatic record locking where applicable, and optional
buffer sharing by multiple processes.

RMS utilities aid file creation and record maintenance. These utilities 
convert files from one organization and format to another, restructure 
indexed files for storage and access efficiency, and reclaim data 
structures within indexed files. The utilities also generate appropriate 
reports.

For systems that have DECnet-VAX or DECnet/OSI installed, RMS provides
a subset of file and record management services to remote network nodes.
Network remote file operations are generally transparent to user pro-
grams.

DCL commands such as EDIT, CREATE, COPY, TYPE, and PRINT allow manip-
ulation of RMS files and records within RMS files at the DCL command
level.

                                23

 

Virtual I/O Cache (VIOC)

OpenVMS VAX provides a standalone or clusterwide, file-oriented disk
cache. Applications automatically benefit from the advantages of the
virtual I/O cache (VIOC) without any special coding. The VIOC file-
caching algorithm is dynamically chosen based on the type of cluster-
wide access currently in progress. VIOC reduces current and potential
I/O bottlenecks within OpenVMS VAX systems. It reduces the number of
I/Os to the disk subsystem, thereby reducing a systemwide bottleneck.

Disk and Tape Volumes

Disk volumes can be organized into volume sets. Volume sets can con-
tain a mix of disk device types and can be extended by adding volumes.
Within a volume set, files of any organization type can span multiple 
volumes. Files can be allocated to the set as a whole (the default)
or to specific volumes within the set. Optionally, portions of indexed
files can be allocated to specific areas of a single disk volume or
to specific volumes in a volume set.

Disk quotas can be placed to control the amount of space individual
users can allocate. Quota assignment is made by user identification
code and can be controlled for each volume set in the system (or for
each individual volume if the volume is not part of a set).

Disk structure information can be cached in memory to reduce the I/O
overhead required for file management services. Although not required
to do so, users can preallocate space and control automatic allocation. 
For example, a file can be extended by a given number of blocks, con-
tiguously or noncontiguously, for optimal file system performance in 
specific cases.

The system applies software validity checks and checksums to critical 
disk structure information. If a volume is improperly dismounted be-
cause of user error or system failure, the system automatically re-
builds the volume's structure information the next time the volume is
mounted. The system detects bad blocks dynamically and prevents their
reuse once the files to which the blocks were allocated are deleted.
On DIGITAL Storage Architecture (DSA) disks, the disk controller dy-
namically detects and replaces bad blocks automatically.

                                24

 

The system provides eight levels of named directories and subdirec-
tories whose contents are alphabetically ordered. Device and file spec-
ifications follow Digital conventions. Logical names can be used to
abbreviate the specifications and to make application programs device
and filename independent. A logical name can be assigned to an entire
specification, to a portion of a specification, or to another logical 
name.

OpenVMS VAX supports multivolume magnetic tape files with transparent 
volume switching. Access positioning is done either by file name or 
by relative file position.

Monitoring Performance History software

Monitoring Performance History software (MPH) is distributed with the
OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 distribution kit and is installed separately.
This software should be installed after installing or upgrading the
system to OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1.

MPH is a tool that collects information (such as error logs, crash dump
summaries, configuration, and performance data) from the system on which
it is installed. This data is transmitted back to Digital and used to
set standard requirements for future releases of OpenVMS. This data
helps set standards such as meantime-between-crash (MTBCr) and meantime-
between-system-interruption (MTBSi). The disk block size requirement
for MPH installation is approximately 500 blocks. MPH requires 400 blocks
of disk space per node after installation. For more information, please
refer to the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 Release Notes.

ASSOCIATED PRODUCTS

VAXcluster Support

VAXcluster Software is an OpenVMS VAX System Integrated Product (SIP)
that is separately licensed. It provides a highly integrated OpenVMS
VAX computing environment distributed over multiple VAX, VAX Worksta-
tion, and MicroVAX CPUs. This environment is called a VAXcluster sys-
tem and may contain up to 96 VAX CPUs.


                                25

 

VAXcluster CPUs communicate using any combination of four intercon-
nects; CI, DSSI, Ethernet, and FDDI. VAXcluster systems that include
a CI may optionally be configured with HSC-series intelligent storage 
controllers.

Applications running on one or more CPUs in a VAXcluster system access 
shared resources in a coordinated manner. VAXcluster Software com-
ponents synchronize access to shared resources, preventing multiple
processes on any CPU in the VAXcluster from interfering with each other
when updating data. This coordination ensures data integrity during
multiple concurrent update transactions. Application programs can spec-
ify the level of file sharing that is required across the VAXcluster;
access is then coordinated by the OpenVMS VAX Extended QIO Processor
(XQP) and Record Management Services (RMS).

The OpenVMS VAX queue manager controls clusterwide batch and print 
queues, which can be accessed by any VAXcluster CPU. Batch jobs sub-
mitted to clusterwide queues are routed to any available CPU so that 
the batch load is shared.

Two or more VAX computers connected to the same Computer Interconnect
(CI) or Digital Storage Systems Interconnect (DSSI) must run 
VAXcluster software and be part of the same VAXcluster system.

Refer to the VAXcluster Software, Software Product Description 
(SPD 29.78.xx) for more information.

Single Security Domain Required[*]

OpenVMS VAXcluster systems provide a uniform computing environment that
is highly scalable, highly available, and secure. OpenVMS VAXcluster
technology has been implemented with the guideline that there exists

____________________
* If Multiple Domains are used, any problems related to or resulting
  from its use are not covered under Digital Support Agreements or 
  product warranties.


                                26

 

a single set of authorized users and that these users may have pro-
cesses executing on any VAXcluster member. Since its inception, Open-
VMS VAX has continually introduced new features in support of this 
concept. The security subsystem has been enhanced to ensure that all 
cluster-visible objects maintain consistent security profiles and the 
system security auditing controls have been extended to work clusterwide.

The design center for all these features and for future OpenVMS operat-
ing system features has been and will remain that of a single security 
domain, with access control mediated by individual nodes using a common 
set of authorization information. This direction is necessitated by the 
design of the core cluster technology, which allows for the construction 
of highly available distributed applications. Substantial system manage-
ment benefits also support this design.

Note: Use of Multiple Security Domains IS NOT supported by Digital.

VMSclusters

Mixed Architecture Clusters containing both VAX systems and Alpha AXP
systems are supported when running the correct versions of the OpenVMS 
VAX and OpenVMS AXP operating systems. For a chart of the approved
versions of the operating systems, refer to the SPDs #29.78 and #41.68.

DECamds

DEC Availability Manager for Distributed Systems  (DECamds) Version
6.1 is now distributed with the OpenVMS Version 6.1 distribution kit.
DECamds must be installed separately. It is supported on any system
running OpenVMS Version 5.5 or later. The ability to run DECamds func-
tionality is part of your VAXcluster software license.

DECamds provides system resource availability monitoring, investiga-
tion aid, and correction capability. This enables system managers to
proactively and effectively manage multiple systems from a centralized, 
mouse-driven DECwindows display.




                                27

 

DECamds software comprises the driver, which runs on each VAX or Alpha 
AXP node being monitored, and the console software, which runs on the 
centralized monitoring station. The console must be a VAX-based X-
display.

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX

Digital provides the Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX product for per-
forming disk mirroring operations, using a RAID 1 storage strategy im-
plementation.

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX is a System Integrated Product (SIP)
that is separately licensed. Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX provides
high data availability for disk devices by ensuring against data loss
resulting from media deterioration or controller or device failure.
This prevents storage subsystem component failures from interrupting
system or application operation.

The system disk and Files-11 On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS2) data disks can
be volume shadowed.

The Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX product supports shadowing of all
MSCP compliant DSA disks and all Digital SCSI disks. All disks in a
single shadow set must have the same physical geometry and can be lo-
cated on a single system or anywhere in a VMScluster system. Disks can
be configured on any MSCP or Digital SCSI compliant controller; this
includes HSC series controllers, local controllers, DSSI Integrated
Storage Elements, and OpenVMS VAX MSCP served DSA devices. Nonlocal
disks can be accessed using any of the supported VAXcluster intercon-
nects (CI, DSSI, Ethernet, FDDI, and mixed).










                                28

 

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX provides fault tolerance resulting
from disk media errors or controller errors across the full range of
VAX processors and configurations. Shadow set member units can be 
located on different controllers and OpenVMS VAX MSCP servers, provid-
ing configuration flexibility and a high degree of data availability.

With the previous release of Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX, the sup-
ported number of shadow sets was increased to 130. System managers can
create up to 130 Phase II shadow sets, each comprised of 1 to 3 disks,
on a standalone or VAXcluster system. Phase I of Volume Shadowing is
no longer supported under OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1.

The binary kit for Volume Shadowing ships with the OpenVMS VAX media
distribution. To run the software, customers need to purchase a li-
cense and documentation. Refer to SPD 27.29.xx for more information.

DECnet Software

DECnet-VAX Software is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that is sep-
arately licensed from the OpenVMS VAX operating system. Refer to the
DECnet-VAX Software Product Description (SPD 48.48.xx) for further 
information.

DECnet/OSI is currently available as a layered product. The license
for DECnet-VAX will also grant the rights to use DECnet/OSI. Note that
only one version of DECnet may be active on a single system at any one
time. Refer to the DECnet/OSI Software Product Description (SPD 25.03.xx)
for further information on supported hardware configurations and soft-
ware features.

DEC TCP/IP Software

Internet networking is available through the DEC TCP/IP Services for
OpenVMS VAX layered product. This product provides TCP/IP networking
(useful with DECwindows), Network File System (NFS), File Transfer 
Protocol (FTP), Remote Terminal Services (TELNET), and other features.
Refer to the DEC TCP/IP for OpenVMS VAX Software Product Description
(SPD 25.A4.xx).


                                29

 

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX is a separately licensed System Inte-
grated Product (SIP) that enables a system manager, user, or appli-
cation to maintain the data integrity of RMS files in the event of a
number of failure scenarios. It protects RMS file data from becoming
lost or inconsistent.

RMS Journaling provides the following three types of journaling:

o  After-Image Journaling. Provides the ability to "redo" modifica-
   tions that have been made to a file. This type of journaling al-
   lows users to recover files that are inadvertently deleted, lost,
   or corrupted. RMS Journaling recovers the file by applying the 
   journaled modifications to a backup copy, thereby restoring its 
   final state. No application modifications are necessary in order 
   to use after-image journaling.

o  Before-Image Journaling. Provides the ability to "undo" modifica-
   tions that have been made to a file. This type of journaling pro-
   vides the ability to return a file to a previous known state. This
   is useful in the event that a file is updated with erroneous or bad
   data. No application modifications are necessary in order to use
   before-image journaling.

o  Recovery Unit Journaling. Provides the ability to maintain trans-
   action integrity. A transaction may be defined as a series of many
   file updates, on one or more files. In the event of any failure 
   during the transaction, Recovery Unit Journaling will roll back the
   partially completed transaction to its starting point. This allows
   complex transactions to be completed as an atomic event-partially
   completed transactions can be avoided. Recovery unit journaling 
   requires application modification.

The binary kit for RMS Journaling ships with the OpenVMS VAX media dis-
tribution. To run the software, customers need to purchase a license
and documentation. Refer to SPD 27.58.xx for more information.




                                30

 

DECram for OpenVMS VAX

Digital offers a separately orderable layered product called DECram
for OpenVMS VAX. DECram for OpenVMS VAX is a disk device driver that
allows an OpenVMS VAX system manager to create pseudo disks (RAMdisks)
that reside in main memory for the purpose of improving I/O performance. 
Frequently accessed data can be accessed much faster from a DECram 
device than from a physical disk device. These RAMdisks can be accessed 
through the file system just as physical disks are accessed, requiring 
no change to application and/or system software.

The number of DECram units used will most often be quite small (usually 
one but sometimes two or more).

Since main memory is allocated for the DECram device, an amount of 
extra memory is generally required. The amount of memory dedicated is
selectable. The OpenVMS VAX system manager designates the amount of
memory dedicated to the DECram device(s) and the files that will be
stored on it. The maximum size of a DECram device is 524,280 blocks.
Refer to the DECram for OpenVMS VAX Software Product Description 
(SPD 34.26.xx) for more information.





















                                31

 

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX

Digital offers a separately orderable layered product called DEC-
windows Motif for OpenVMS VAX, which provides support for OSF/Motif, 
a standards-based graphical user interface, in a single run-time and 
development environment. In addition, DECwindows Motif provides X User
Interface (XUI) run-time support. Because both Motif and XUI are based
on the X Window System, applications written to either the Motif or
XUI toolkit will run regardless of which environment the user selects.
Refer to the DECwindows Motif Software Product Description (SPD 42.19.xx)
for more information.

The OpenVMS VAX software installation procedure contains an optional
step to allow installation of the DECwindows X11 Display Server and
associated files (for example, graphics drivers and font files), which
are required to run the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX layered product. 
Please refer to the OpenVMS VAX Upgrade and Installation Procedures Man-
ual for details concerning the optional installation of the DECwindows 
X11 Display server and associated files required for DECwindows base, 
server, and font support. Note that beginning with the release of OpenVMS 
VAX Version 6.0, the operating system kit no longer contains full DEC-
windows support. To obtain this full DECwindows support, you must install 
the separate DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX layered product.

Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

The Display PostScript system provided with DECwindows Motif extends
the native X graphical programming environment for DECwindows users
displaying text or images on workstations that support the XDPS ex-
tension. The DECwindows Motif layered product must be installed and
licensed in order to use Display PostScript.

X Display PostScript has two components:

o  XDPS server extension, which is provided with the display server
   in the OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS VAX operating systems. A worksta-
   tion is required to use this server.


                                32

 

o  Adobe client libraries, which are used by applications to perform
   PostScript operations, such as rotating and scaling fonts, gener-
   ating curves, and displaying PostScript documents. The Adobe client
   libraries are available in the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS layered 
   product, as well as on third-party platforms, including IBM, Sun, 
   and Silicon Graphics.

X Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the basic X11
Window System environment:

o  All DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rotation 
   angle.

o  XDPS graphics specified in user-defined coordinate systems are 
   independent of monitor density.

o  Color or gray-scale rendition are automatically modified to take
   advantage of the monitor type through either direct display, color
   dithering, or half-toning.

o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and executed
   on command.

o  Sophisticated graphics primitives such as precisely controlled 
   Bezier curves can be displayed.

o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily.

The Display PostScript system also allows users to view PostScript files
with such applications as DECwindows Mail and the CDA Viewer without
generating hardcopy.

STANDARDS

POSIX Support

OpenVMS VAX supports a large number of industry standards, facilitating 
application portability and interoperability. This standards support 
includes POSIX (Portable Operating System Interface). POSIX defines 
a set of interface standards for various parts of an operating system. 
The POSIX standards and draft standards have been generated

                                33

 

by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and
are supported by organizations such as the International Organization
for Standardization (ISO).

The OpenVMS VAX environment with POSIX for OpenVMS VAX installed in-
cludes support for the standards and draft standards for the system
application programming interface (POSIX 1003.1), shell and utilities
(P1003.2), and real-time programming (P1003.4).

The OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 environment in conjunction with POSIX for
OpenVMS VAX will be certified by the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) as being conformant to the Federal Information
Processing Standard (FIPS 151-1).

XPG3 BASE Branding

The OpenVMS VAX environment with POSIX for OpenVMS VAX and VAX C in-
stalled extends the support for POSIX standards and draft standards
to include the X/Open BASE specifications defined in the X/Open Porta-
bility Guide, Issue 3 (XPG3). The XPG3 BASE specifications extend the
system application programming interface and shell and utilities of-
fered in the IEEE POSIX standards and draft standards. XPG3 also in-
cludes standards-based internationalization support.

Platforms and components that successfully complete the branding process 
and pass X/Open Verification Test Suite for XPG3 (VSX3) are awarded
the X/Open XPG3 brand. Components must pass a series of more than 5500
tests in VSX3 to earn the X/Open BASE Brand. These tests ensure users
that the OpenVMS VAX environment with POSIX for OpenVMS VAX and VAX
C installed supports the essential set of interfaces necessary in an
open system.

The inclusion of XPG3 BASE support in the OpenVMS VAX environment gives
application developers a broader set of standards-based portability
features to incorporate into their applications. Most applications that
strictly conform to the POSIX and XPG3 specifications can be developed 
on an OpenVMS VAX system with POSIX for OpenVMS VAX and the VAX C com-
piler, and then ported without modification to any other platform that 
also supports the same POSIX standards, draft standards, and XPG3 
specifications.

                                34

 

DCE Support

The Distributed Computing Environment for OpenVMS product family pro-
vides a set of the distributed computing functionality specified for
the Open Software Foundation's (OSF) Distributed Computing Environment 
as well as tools for application developers. With DCE, the OSF has 
established a standard set of services and interfaces that facilitate 
the creation, use, and maintenance of client/server applications. The 
DCE for OpenVMS serves as the basis for an open computing environment 
where networks of multivendor systems appear as a single system to the 
user. Since DCE makes the underlying networks and operating systems 
transparent, application developers can easily build portable, inter-
operable client/server applications. Users can locate and share
information safely and easily across the entire enterprise. The DCE
for OpenVMS supplies system managers with a set of tools to consis-
tently manage the entire distributed computing environment, while 
also assuring the integrity of the enterprise.

The DCE for OpenVMS product family currently consists of four sepa-
rate products. The products are:

o  DCE Run Time Services for OpenVMS, which is required for all sys-
   tems participating in the DCE cell. The DCE Run Time Services in-
   cludes DCE client functions as well as DCE administration tools.
   The DCE Run Time Services provides client/server applications the
   ability to interoperate over DECnet, TCP/IP, and UDP/IP network 
   protocols.

o  DCE Application Developers' Kits for OpenVMS, which is required for
   developers of distributed applications, but optional for other users.
   The DCE Application Developers' Kit provides programmers with an
   Interface Definition Language (IDL), an easy-to-use, ANSI C-based
   language for writing remote procedure calls.

o  DCE Cell Directory Server (CDS), one of which is required for each
   DCE cell. The DCE CDS Server is a central repository containing in-
   formation about the location of resources in the DCE cell. It allows 
   access to resources by a single name, regardless of physical location.

                                35

 

o  Digital DCE Security Server, one of which is required for each DCE
   cell. The DCE Security Server protects resources from illegal access 
   and provides secure communications within and between DCE cells.

The right-to-use the DCE Run Time Services is bundled with the OpenVMS 
VAX operating system. All other DCE products are available as separate 
layered products (expected availability for the DCE CDS Server and 
Security Server is May, 1994). See SPD 43.05.xx for more detailed in-
formation on the DCE for OpenVMS product family.

Support for OSF/Motif and X Window System Standards

DECwindows Motif provides support for OSF/Motif, a standards-based 
graphical user interface, and the X Consortium's X Window System.

Supported Standards

The OpenVMS VAX operating system is based on the public, national, and
international standards listed below. These standards are developed by 
the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), U.S. Federal Government 
(responsible for FIPS), Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
(IEEE), and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). 
The following information may be useful in determining responsiveness to 
stated conformance requirements as enabled in particular commercial and
/or government procurement solicitation documents.

o  ANSI X3.4-1986: American Standard Code for Information Interchange

o  ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape (800 BPI, NRZI)

o  ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code

o  ANSI X3.27-1987: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic Tapes 
   for Information Interchange

o  ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (1600 BPI, PE)


                                36

 

o  ANSI X3.40-1983: Unrecorded Magnetic Tape

o  ANSI X3.41-1974: Code Extension Techniques for Use with 7-bit 
   ASCII

o  ANSI X3.42-1975: Representation of Numeric Values in Character 
   Strings

o  ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (6250 BPI, GCR)

o  ANSI X3.131-1986 (SCSI I): Small Computer System Interface

o  ANSI X3T9.2/89-042 (SCSI II): Small Computer System Interface 
   as described in REV 10C

o  ANSI/IEEE 802.2-1985: Logical Link Control

o  ANSI/IEEE 802.3-1985: Carrier Sense Multiple Access with 
   Collision Detection

o  FIPS 1-2: Code for Information Interchange, Its Representations, 
   Subsets, and Extensions

   Note: 1-2 includes ANSI X3.4-1977(86)/FIPS 15; ANSI X3.32-1973/FIPS
   36; ANSI X3.41-1974/FIPS 35; and FIPS 7.

o  FIPS 2-1/ANSI 3.6-1965: Perforated Tape Code for Information 
   Interchange

o  FIPS 3-1/ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape Information 
   Interchange (800 CPI, NRZI)

o  FIPS 13/ANSI X3.21-1967: Rectangular Holes in Twelve-row Punched 
   Cards

o  FIPS 14/ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code

o  FIPS 16-1/ANSI X3.15-1976: Bit Sequencing of the Code for Infor-
   mation Interchange in Serial-by-bit Data Transmission

   Note: FED STD 1010 adopts FIPS 16-1.

                                37

 

o  FIPS 22-1/ANSI X3.1-1976: Synchronous Signaling Rates Between Data
   Terminal and Data Communication Equipment

   Note: FED STD 1013 adopts FIPS 22-1.

o  FIPS 25/ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Information 
   Interchange (1600 CPI, Phase Encoded)

o  FIPS 26/ANSI X3.18-1967: One-Inch Perforated Paper Tape for Infor-
   mation Interchange

o  FIPS 37/ANSI X3.36-1975: Synchronous High Speed Data Signaling Rates
   Between Data Terminal Equipment and Data Communication Equipment

   Note: FED STD 1001 adopts FIPS 37.

o  FIPS 50/ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Information 
   Interchange, 6250 CPI (246 CPMM), Group Coded Recording

o  FIPS 79/ANSI X3.27-1987: Magnetic Tape Labels and File Structure
   for Information Interchange

o  FIPS 86/ANSI X3.64-1979: Additional Controls for Use with American 
   National Standard Code for Information Interchange

o  FIPS 151-1: Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX 1003.1)

   Note: Other FIPS are not applicable.

o  POSIX 1003.1, 1990: System application programming interface

o  POSIX 1003.2, draft 10: Shell and utilities

o  POSIX 1003.4, draft 9: Real-time programming

   Note: Information regarding interchangeability of ANSI and FED stan-
   dards with FIPS is contained in "ADP Telecommunications Standards
   Index", July 1988, published and maintained by the General Services
   Administration.

o  ISO 646: ISO 7-bit Coded Character Set for Information Exchange

o  ISO 1001: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic Tapes for Infor-
   mation Interchange

                                38

 

o  ISO 1863: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
   magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 32 rpmm (800
   rpi)

o  ISO 1864: Information Processing - Unrecorded 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
   magnetic tape for information interchange - 35 ftpmm (800 ftpi) NRZI,
   126 ftpmm (3 200) ftpi phase encoded and 356 ftmm (9 042 ftpi), NRZI

o  ISO 2022: Code Extension Techniques for Use with ISO 646

o  ISO 3307: Representations of Time of the Day

o  ISO 3788: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
   magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 63 rpmm 
   (1 600 rpt), phase encoded

o  ISO 4873: 8-bit Code for Information Interchange - Structure and
   Rules for Implementation

o  ISO 5652: Recorded Magtape (6250)

o  ISO 6429: Control Functions for Coded Character Sets

o  ISO 9660: Information Processing - Volume and file structure of 
   CD-ROM for information exchange.

INSTALLATION

OpenVMS VAX is distributed as binary kits on tape and compact disc.
Procedures for setting up the system disk from a kit and for prepar-
ing the system for day-to-day operations are easy and straightforward.
The procedures are described in the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 Upgrade
and Installation Manual. Computer-specific information is contained
in the upgrade and installation supplements for each family of VAX 
computers.

VMSINSTAL

OpenVMS VAX includes the VMSINSTAL facility to automate operating sys-
tem software updates, as well as to handle the installation of optional
Digital-supplied software products.

                                39

 

POLYCENTER Software Installation

POLYCENTER Software Installation (PCSI) V1.0 is now included in OpenVMS. 
PCSI is distributed with the OpenVMS Version 6.1 distribution kit. The 
right to use PCSI software is bundled with the OpenVMS VAX Operating 
System Base License. POLYCENTER Software Installation is a new tech-
nology that simplifies the installation and management of OpenVMS pro-
ducts. PCSI cannot be used to install OpenVMS VAX operating system 
updates.

For system managers, POLYCENTER Software Installation (PCSI) provides
Digital Command Language (DCL) and DECwindows Motif interfaces that
can be used to install, configure, reconfigure, and deinstall soft-
ware products that have been prepared with PCSI. In addition, PCSI 
provides a database to track the installation, reconfiguration, and 
deinstallation of software. For products installed with other instal-
lation technologies, PCSI provides a mechanism for adding information
about them to the PCSI database. PCSI also provides the ability to man-
age dependencies between products during the installation process.

For software providers, POLYCENTER Software Installation simplifies
the task of packaging software by providing a simple, declarative 
language for describing material for the installation kit and defining
how it is installed. PCSI knows how to do the functions; the developer 
instructs PCSI what to do. This significantly reduces the complexity 
and time to develop installation procedures. The language allows the 
developer to easily specify dependencies on other software, manage 
certain "objects" in the execution environment (such as files and 
directories), and anticipate and resolve conflict before it occurs. 
PCSI also significantly simplifies the packaging of multiple software 
products into one logical product.

Test Package and Diagnostics

OpenVMS VAX includes a User Environment Test Package (UETP) that ver-
ifies that the OpenVMS VAX operating system is properly installed and
ready for use on the customer's systems.



                                40

 

Diagnostics can be run on individual devices during normal system op-
eration. Certain critical components can operate in degraded mode. For
example, the memory cache can be disabled. The system places a component 
in degraded mode when errors pass a threshold level.

OpenVMS VAX DISK BLOCK REQUIREMENTS

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 3)

To support the complete OpenVMS VAX operating system environment, a
system disk of greater than 100 MB is recommended. When a smaller disk
is used, additional tailoring is required prior to installing some 
OpenVMS VAX options. This does not include the dump file space. Refer to 
the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 Upgrade and Installation Manual for informa-
tion on tailoring.

The disk block size for OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1, after installation,
is approximately 152,000 blocks. This figure includes 5,600 blocks for
page and swap files. Most systems will require larger page and swap
files. This figure also includes Help library files that are in data-
compressed format. Most system managers choose to expand these files
(for faster access). The expansion requires approximately 13,000 ad-
ditional blocks.

Upgrading to OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1

OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2 is the minimum version required in order to
perform an upgrade to OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1. A minimum of 46,650 free
blocks on the system disk is required in order to perform the upgrade.

DECwindows Motif Disk Block Requirements

To support OpenVMS VAX and the DECwindows Motif layered product, a sys-
tem disk of greater than 150 MB is recommended. The disk space required
for the installation of DECwindows Motif is 76,000 blocks. The permanent 
amount of space used is 67,000 blocks. An additional 28,000 blocks are 
needed to install the DECwindows X11 Display Server and associated files. 
(These DECwindows X11 Display Server and associated files are included 
in the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 media.) These disk space requirements

                                41

 

are in addition to the 152,000 blocks required for the other components 
of the OpenVMS VAX operating system environment. Refer to the OpenVMS 
VAX Version 6.1 Upgrade and Installation Manual for details on tailoring 
small system disks in order to support the DECwindows Motif environment.

Installation of the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 layered product gives
customers the option of installing any or all of the following com-
ponents:

o  User environment and applications - 44,000 blocks. This section 
   provides support for running DECwindows Motif applications on VAX 
   compute servers.

o  Programming support - 12,000 blocks. This section includes support
   for the DEC C, DEC C++, DEC Fortran, Pascal, and VAX C programming
   languages. If a subset of languages is installed, the amount of disk
   space required will be less.

o  Example files - approximately 7,000 blocks.

Note that the individual sizes add up to more than the total because
some components are shared by multiple portions of the environment.

Memory Requirements

The minimum amount of memory supported for an OpenVMS VAX environment
is dependent upon the specific system(s) being used and the overall
type of configuration and application requirements. The minimum amount
of memory supported for a standalone VAX system running OpenVMS VAX
Version 6.1 is 4 MB.

The following tables give examples of the minimum amount of memory re-
quired for a system user to install, boot, and log in to OpenVMS VAX
Version 6.1. Specific requirements will depend upon the type of system 
being used and what other software is installed. To ensure satisfactory 
performance of applications, additional memory will be required.


                                42

 

___________________________________________________________________
						Necessary
Component					Memory
___________________________________________________________________

OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1       			4 MB

DECnet-VAX                    			.5 MB

VAXcluster                    			1.5 MB

DECwindows Motif with remote execution		1.5 MB
of applications (X11 Display Server only)

DECwindows Motif with local execution of       5.0 MB
applications (Includes X11 Display Server 
and DECwindows Motif layered product)
___________________________________________________________________


Two example configurations based on the previous table are:

___________________________________________________________________
						Minimum Supported
System						Memory
___________________________________________________________________

OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1, DECwindows Motif      6 MB
with applications executing remotely, and 
DECnet (standalone system)

OpenVMS VAX V6.1, DECwindows Motif with	     11 MB
applications executing locally, VAXcluster
and DECnet
___________________________________________________________________

Note: These are the minimum memory requirements. More memory will be
required for satisfactory performance of the operating system and DEC-
windows Motif applications. The performance and memory usage of DECwin-
dows Motif systems is particularly sensitive to system configuration
and window and application usage. Remote execution of an application

                                43

 

requires an additional system that runs the application while the dis-
play of the application occurs on the local workstation.

Please refer to specific layered product Software Product Descriptions
for their memory requirements.

Please refer to the OpenVMS VAX documentation for more information con-
cerning performance considerations.

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements for the current
version.

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

Compact Disc (contains the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 save sets, OpenVMS 
VAX Version 6.1 standalone BACKUP, and the Standard + Optional Doc-
umentation in Bookreader format)

TK50 Streaming Tape (contains the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 save sets,
and OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 standalone BACKUP)

9-track 1600 BPI Magnetic tape (contains the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1
save sets)

The OpenVMS VAX operating system is also available as part of the 
OpenVMS VAX Consolidated Software Distribution on compact disc.

The OpenVMS VAX documentation is also available as part of the Open-
VMS VAX Online Documentation Library on compact disc.

DOCUMENTATION

OpenVMS VAX documentation is organized to offer a choice of three sets
of hardcopy documentation: the Base Documentation Set, the Standard
Documentation Set, and the Standard + Optional Documentation Set.


                                44

 

o  Base Documentation Set-a desktop set for users of small standalone
   systems or users connected to large OpenVMS VAX systems. The Base
   Documentation Set contains information on the activities that you
   are most likely to perform as a user or a system manager of a small
   standalone system. It also includes system security information.
   It contains no programming information.

o  Standard Documentation Set-a full documentation set for users who
   need extensive explanatory information on all major OpenVMS VAX re-
   sources, complete reference information on system routines and util-
   ities, detailed examples, master index, a glossary, and information 
   on the Help Message facility. The Standard Documentation Set meets 
   the needs of system managers and of system and application programmers. 
   It includes the Base Documentation Set as well as four other kits:

   -  Master Reference

   -  Advanced System Management

   -  Networking

   -  Programming

o  Standard + Optional Documentation Set-for users who need all available 
   OpenVMS VAX documentation. This set includes the Standard Documentation 
   Set and all optional documentation (except for some System Integrated 
   Products documentation that is separately orderable).

Note: Each book in these sets is also separately orderable.

Most manuals contain information that is common to both OpenVMS VAX and 
OpenVMS AXP systems. Any functional differences between the two are 
clearly described in the text and marked with margin icons. In addition, 
a small number of books have been produced specifically for the OpenVMS 
AXP operating system or the OpenVMS VAX operating system. OpenVMS VAX 
users receive all common manuals and all VAX-specific manuals.


                                45

 

An additional hardcopy documentation offering delivers all OpenVMS com-
mon manuals, OpenVMS VAX-specific manuals, and OpenVMS AXP-specific
manuals. Users running OpenVMS on both VAX and AXP systems can use one
order number for all OpenVMS operating system documentation needs. A
complete listing of all the documentation kits and their contents is
in the Overview of OpenVMS Documentation.

Hardcopy user and programming documentation for the DECwindows Motif
layered product is separately orderable.

In addition, the Online Documentation Library compact disc contains
the following documentation, which can be read using the DECwindows
Bookreader application:

o  OpenVMS VAX Base Documentation Set

o  OpenVMS VAX Standard Documentation Set

o  OpenVMS VAX Standard + Optional Documentation Set

o  VMS DECwindows Motif User and Programmer Documentation

o  OpenVMS VAX Layered Product Documentation

Note: In order to use the DECwindows Bookreader application, the DEC-
windows Motif layered product must be installed.

ORDERING INFORMATION

This section contains order numbers for OpenVMS VAX media, licenses,
documentation, and services. It also provides order numbers for com-
bination VAX and AXP media kits, documentation only kits and combi-
nation VAX and AXP documentation update services.

Software Licenses

VAX VMS Operating System License for OpenVMS: QL-001A*-**
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Base License: QL-005A*-**
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Symmetric Multiprocessing (SMP)
  Base Extension License: QL-005A9-6*
OpenVMS VAX Interactive User License: QL-XULA*-**
OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive User License: QL-09SA*-**


                                46

 

Media and Documentation

With Base Documentation Set: QA-09SA*-H*
With Standard Documentation Set: QA-005A*-H*
With Standard + Optional Documentation Set: QA-001A*-H*

Combination VAX and AXP Media

With Harcopy Release Notes Only Kit: QA-MT3AA-H8

Additional Media

OpenVMS VAX Consolidated Software Distribution on Compact Disc: 
   QA-VWJ8A-A8

Additional Documentation Sets

Base Documentation Set: QA-09SAA-GZ
Standard Documentation Set: QA-005AA-GZ
Standard + Optional Documentation Set: QA-001AA-GZ
OpenVMS VAX Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc: 
   QA-VYR8A-G8

Combination VAX and AXP Documentation Sets

OpenVMS VAX/AXP Base Documentation Set: QA-MT3AB-GZ
OpenVMS VAX/AXP Standard Documentation Set: QA-MT3AA-GZ
OpenVMS VAX/AXP Standard + Optional Documentation Set: QA-MT3AH-GZ

Software Product Services

VAX VMS Operating System Software Support Service for OpenVMS: 
   QT-001A*-**
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Base Software Support Service: 
   QT-005A*-**
OpenVMS VAX Interactive User Software Support Service: QT-XULA*-**
OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive User Software Support 
   Service: QT-09SA*-**
DECwindows Motif Software Support Service: QT-XA1A*-**

                                47


 

Media and Documentation Update Service

With Base Documentation Set: QT-09SA*-E*
With Standard Documentation Set: QT-005A*-E*
With Standard + Optional Documentation Set: QT-001A*-E*

Additional Media Update Service

OpenVMS VAX Consolidated Software Distribution on Compact Disc: 
   QT-VWJ8A-C8

Documentation Only Update Service

Base Documentation Set: QT-09SAA-KZ
Standard Documentation Set: QT-005AA-KZ
Standard + Optional Documentation Set: QT-001AA-KZ
OpenVMS VAX Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc: QT-VYR8A-C8

Combination VAX and AXP Documentation Only Update Service

OpenVMS VAX/AXP Base Documentation Set: QT-MT3AB-KZ
OpenVMS VAX/AXP Standard Documentation Set: QT-MT3AA-KZ
OpenVMS VAX/AXP Standard + Optional Documentation Set: QT-MT3AH-KZ

The Software Media and the Standard Documentation Set (QA-005A*-H*)
is recommended for users managing high-end VAX systems; for example,
VAX 7000 Model 600, VAXcluster systems, or DECnet-VAX networks. The
Software Media and the Standard + Optional Documentation Set 
(QA-001A*-H*) is recommended for customers who need all available 
OpenVMS documentation. This set includes the Standard Documentation 
Set and all optional documentation (except for System Integrated Pro-
ducts documentation). The Software Media and Base Documentation Set 
(QA-09SA*-H*) is recommended for managers of small standalone systems 
and for general end-users. DECnet/OSI documentation is sold separately. 
Refer to the SPD (SPD 25.03.xx) for ordering information.


                                48

 



*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
   censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

The OpenVMS VAX software is furnished under the licensing provisions
of Digital's Standard Terms and Conditions.

The System Integrated Products (SIPs), VAXcluster Software (SPD 29.78.xx),
DECnet-VAX (SPD 48.48.xx), Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX (SPD 27.29.xx),
and RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX (SPD 27.58.xx) are separately licensed 
products. Please refer to the appropriate Software Product Description for 
more information.

DECwindows Motif is a separately licensed layered product. Refer to the 
DECwindows Motif Software Product Description (SPD 42.19.xx) for more 
information.

DECram for OpenVMS VAX is a separately licensed layered product. Refer 
to the DECram for OpenVMS VAX Software Product Description (SPD 34.26.xx) 
for more information.

Software License Information

The OpenVMS VAX operating system uses one of two different categories
of licenses depending on the hardware and software configurations used
and currently supported. This information is also provided in the ap-
plicable country's Price List.

These are the two categories of operating system licenses for OpenVMS 
VAX:

1. VAX VMS Licensing
2. OpenVMS VAX Licensing

Digital provides the proper license type with the purchase of the sys-
tem. Not all license types are available for every system model.

                                49

 

VAX VMS License Information

The VAX VMS licenses include the rights for the DEC Rdb Run-Time Op-
tion for OpenVMS VAX. This allows the running of an application de-
veloped using DEC Rdb for OpenVMS VAX software. However, DEC Rdb for
OpenVMS VAX has separate media and documentation. In addition, should
a user want to perform Rdb development, a separate license must be pur-
chased. Refer to SPD 25.59.xx for further information.

There are four types of VAX VMS licenses:

1. Traditional License (QL-001A*-**)

This type of license provides unlimited use to the users on a defined
system. VAX VMS traditional licenses are sized to capacity according
to system type.

2. Multi-User License (QL-001A*-**)

This type of license provides use according to a specified number of
concurrent users. This is an activity-based license. The Multi-user
License provides the customer with the right to use the operating sys-
tem up to the limit of users specified in the license. An operating
system "user" is a person who is logged in to the system and/or is 
using the system interactively. This license is only available on 
limited system models, primarily MicroVAX and VAX 4000 systems.

Interactive use of VAX systems licensed with the Multi-user License
may be increased by the addition of OpenVMS VAX Interactive User Li-
censes* (for one or more users). Refer to the section on OpenVMS VAX
Interactive User Licenses for further information.

3. VAX VMS Workstation License (QL-001A*-**)

This type of license provides use for a single user on a VAX Worksta-
tion. This license type allows one direct login for the single user
and then one additional login for system management purposes only.

Additional interactive use of VAX Workstations licensed with the VAX
VMS Workstation License requires the addition of an OpenVMS VAX In-
teractive User License* (for one or more users). Refer to the section
on OpenVMS VAX Interactive User Licenses for further information.

                                50

 

4. File and Application Server License (QL-001A*-**)

This type of license provides for the non-interactive use of OpenVMS.

OpenVMS-based VAXservers are sold with a File and Application Server
License. The intent of an OpenVMS-based VAXserver is to provide file,
print, application, and compute "services" to "clients" who have re-
motely submitted their requests (for example via network/remote sub-
mit/batch jobs, and so forth). This license type also allows one di-
rect login for system management purposes only.

Additional interactive use of OpenVMS VAXservers licensed with the File
and Application Server License requires the addition of an OpenVMS VAX
Interactive User License* (for one or more users). Refer to the section 
on OpenVMS VAX Interactive User Licenses for further information.

All VAX VMS licenses provide the right to use only the OpenVMS features, 
functionality, and facilities provided by the current version license. 
Any features, functionality, and facilities not specifically licensed 
in the purchased version of OpenVMS may not be used if a prior version 
kit containing such unlicensed features is installed.

Not all VAX VMS license types are available for all versions of VMS,
OpenVMS or all VAX models.

*  The OpenVMS VAX Interactive Use licenses are not supported by the
   VMS or OpenVMS VAX operating system releases prior to Version 5.5.

OpenVMS VAX License Information

There are four types of OpenVMS VAX licenses:

1. OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License (QL-005A*-**)

LMF Product Name: BASE-VMS-250136

OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License grants the right to unrestricted, non-
interactive use of the OpenVMS VAX operating system for the execution
of remotely submitted requests for batch, print, application, and com-
puting services, on a designated, single processor.  This license 
authorizes one direct login for system management purposes only.


                                51

 


The OpenVMS VAX Base License does not include the license right for
the DEC Rdb Run-Time Option for OpenVMS VAX. The DEC Rdb for OpenVMS
VAX Run-Time License is available separately.

The Operating System Base License is a prerequisite for all Interactive
User Licenses and all SMP Base Extension Licenses.

Interactive use of systems licensed with an OpenVMS VAX O/S Base Li-
cense requires the addition of an OpenVMS VAX Interactive User License
(for one or more users).

The OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License provides the right to use only the
OpenVMS VAX features, functionality, and facilities provided by the
current version. Any features, functionality, and facilities not specif-
ically licensed in the purchased version of OpenVMS VAX may not be used
if a prior version kit containing such unlicensed features is installed.

The OpenVMS VAX O/S Base License also includes the license for DECprint
Supervisor for OpenVMS VAX, Base. The DECprint Supervisor for OpenVMS 
VAX has separate documentation, media kits, and service products. Refer 
to SPD 44.15.xx for further details.

2. Symmetric Multiprocessing (SMP) Base Extension License (QL-005A9-6*)

LMF Product Name: BASE-VMS-250136

SMP Base Extensions extend the O/S Base License to enable symmetric 
multiprocessing capability on a select number of OpenVMS VAX systems
supporting SMP.  SMP Base Extensions are permanently tied to the O/S
Base License and may not be separated from the O/S Base License if 
an SMP board is removed from the system.

SMP Extensions grant the right to use the same version of the operating
system software as permitted for the corresponding O/S Base License at
the time when the SMP Extension is installed.


                                52




3. OpenVMS VAX Interactive User License (QL-XULA*-**)

LMF Product Name: VMS-USER

The OpenVMS VAX Interactive User License provides the right to inter-
actively use the operating system by the specified, or unlimited, num-
ber of concurrent users, on a designated, single processor. A user is
an individual who is logged in to a processor and/or is interactively
using the operating system software by means other than login. An Open-
VMS VAX O/S Base License or one of the four types of VAX VMS Licenses
(QL-001A*-**) is a prerequisite for the OpenVMS VAX Interactive User
License.

This license grants the right to use the same version of the operat-
ing system that is permitted under the corresponding O/S Base License
or one of the four types of VAX VMS Licenses, at the time of the ini-
tial installation of the Interactive User License.

The OpenVMS VAX O/S Base, the SMP Base Extension, and Interactive 
User licenses are not supported by the VMS or OpenVMS VAX operating 
system releases prior to OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5.

4. OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive User License (QL-09SA*-**)

LMF Product Name: ADL-USER

This license grants the right to interactive use of the OpenVMS VAX
operating system, provided the appropriate Operating System Base 
License or one of the four types of VAX VMS Licenses has been 
previously installed on a VAX system.  The Distributed Interactive
User licenses are concurrent use licenses and are available in any
quantity desired except unlimited.  Distributed Interactive User 
licenses are mobile (redesignatable) andmay be installed and used 
on a single OpenVMS VAX processor, or shared in a single OpenVMS 
VAXcluster.

A Distributed Interactive user is defined as an individual who is 
logged in to OpenVMS VAX processor or OpenVMS VAXcluster and/or is 
interactively using the operating system software by means other 
than a login.

                                53
 




When an OpenVMS VAX SMP System upgrade is performed, the SMP Ex-
tension to the OpenVMS VAX AXP Operating System License permits
the use of all existing Distributed Interactive User Licenses on 
the upgraded system.

This license grants the right to use the same version of the 
operating system that is permitted under the corresponding O/S
Base License or one of the four types of VAX VMS Licenses, at
the time of the initial installation of the Distributed Inter-
active User License.

The OpenVMS VAX Distributed Interactive Use licenses are not 
supported by the VMS or OpenVMS VAX operating system releases
prior to OpenVMS VAX Version 6.0.

License Management Facility Support

The OpenVMS VAX Operating System supports the License Management 
Facility.

If no VAX VMS or OpenVMS VAX license is registered and activated using 
the License Management Facility, then a single login is permitted for 
system management purposes through the system console (OPA0:).

Several of the VAX VMS and OpenVMS VAX license types are based on the
number of concurrent users, called an activity license. Every product 
has the option to define an activity as related to the License Management 
Facility. Activities, sometimes referred to as an OpenVMS "user," are 
defined as follows:

o  Each remote terminal connection is considered an activity. This 
   is true even if you set host to your local node (SET HOST 0).

o  Each connection from a terminal server is considered an activity.

o  A multiple-window session on a workstation is considered one 
   activity, regardless of the number of windows.

o  A batch job is not considered an activity.

o  A remote network connection that is a connection other than a 
   remote terminal connection is not considered an activity.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.



                                54

 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
formation, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
Addendum of this SPD and the applicable Digital Standard Terms and Con-
ditions.

SYSTEMS SUPPORTED BY OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1

This section of the SPD lists the VAX systems that are supported by
OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1. Refer to the VAX System and Options Catalog
and the Network and Communications Buyers Guide for details concern-
ing VAX hardware configurations and options.

Q-bus Based Systems

o  MicroVAX II

o  VAXstation II/GPX[1], VAXstation II/QVSS[2]

o  MicroVAX 3200, VAXserver 3200, VAXstation 3200

o  MicroVAX 3300, VAXserver 3300

o  MicroVAX 3400, VAXserver 3400

o  MicroVAX 3500, VAXserver 3500, VAXstation 3500, VAXstation 3520,
   VAXstation 3540

o  MicroVAX 3600, VAXserver 3600

o  MicroVAX 3800, VAXserver 3800

____________________

 1. Graphics Processing Accelerator (GPX)

 2. Q-bus Video Sub System (QVSS)

                                55

 

o  MicroVAX 3900, VAXserver 3900

o  VAX 4000, Models 100, 200, 300, 500, 600

o  VAX 4000, Models 50, 100A, 500A, 600A, 700A

o  VAXserver 4000, Models 200, 300, 400, 500, 600

NMI Bus Based Systems

o  VAX 8530, VAXserver 8530, VAX 8550, VAXserver 8550

o  VAX 8700, VAXserver 8700

o  VAX 8800, VAX 8810, VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

o  VAXserver 8800, VAXserver 8810, VAXserver 8820, VAXserver 8830, 
   VAXserver 8840

XMI Bus Based Systems

o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 210, 220, 230, 240

o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 310, 320, 330, 340, 360

o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 410, 420, 430, 440, 450, 460

o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 510, 520, 530, 540, 550, 560

o  VAX 6000 Series, Models 610, 620, 630, 640

o  VAXserver 6000, Models 210, 220, 310, 320, 410, 420, 510, 520

o  VAX 8530, VAX 8550, VAXserver 8530, VAXserver 8550

o  VAX 8700, VAXserver 8700

o  VAX 8800, VAX 8810, VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

o  VAXserver 8800, VAXserver 8810, VAXserver 8820, VAXserver 8830, 
   VAXserver 8840

o  VAX 7000, Models 610, 620, 630, 640, 650, 660

o  VAX 10000, Models 610, 620, 630, 640, 650, 660


                                56

 


VAXBI Bus Based Systems

o  VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAXserver 8200, VAXserver 8250

o  VAX 8300, VAX 8350, VAXserver 8300, VAXserver 8350

SBI Bus Based Systems

o  VAX 11/780, VAX 11/785

o  VAX 8600, VAX 8650, VAXserver 8600, VAXserver 8650

CMI Bus Based Systems

o  VAX 11/750

Special System Specific Internal Bus

o  VAX 11/730

o  MicroVAX 2000, VAXstation 2000, VAXstation 2000/GPX,
   VAXstation 2000/MFB[3]

o  VAXft 3000, Models 110, 310, 410, 610, 612

o  MicroVAX 3100, Models 10, 10E, 20, 20E, 30, 40, 80, 90

o  VAXserver 3100, Models 10, 10E, 20, 20E

o  VAXstation 3100, Models 30, 38, 40, 48, 76

o  VAXstation 3100/GPX, Models 38, 48, 76

o  VAXstation 3100/SPX[4], Models 38, 48, 76

____________________

 3. Monochrome Frame Buffer (MFB)

 4. 2D Scanline Processor Accelerator Graphics System (SPX)
 

                                57

 

o  VAXstation 4000, Models 60, 90

o  VAXstation 4000-VLC

o  VAX 9000, Models 110, 110VP[5], 210, 210VP, 310, 310VP

o  VAX 9000, Models 320, 320VP, 330, 330VP, 340, 340VP

o  VAX 9000, Models 410, 410VP, 420, 420VP, 430, 430VP

o  VAX 9000, Models 440, 440VP


System Restrictions

The following list describes version specific restrictions. The 
DECwindows Motif environment is not supported on these systems.

MicroVAX I/VAXstation I Systems

The final version of OpenVMS VAX that supports these systems is VMS
V5.1-1.

VAX-11/725

VMS V5.1 was the final version to support the VAX-11/725.

VAX-11/730 System

The VAX-11/730 system supports additional memory to a maximum of 5 MB
for systems configured with R80/RL02 or dual RL02 disks. Other VAX-11
/730 system configurations support a maximum of 3 MB of memory for the
VAX-11/730 only. To run OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1, 4 MB of memory is re-
quired.

____________________

 5. Vector Processor (VP)


                                58

 

PERIPHERAL DEVICES

The following information describes Digital Equipment Corporation ter-
minals, disks, tapes, controllers, communications options, and VAXcluster 
options.

Digital reserves the right to change the number and type of devices
supported by OpenVMS VAX, DECnet-VAX, and VAXcluster Software. The min-
imum hardware requirements for future versions and updates of OpenVMS
VAX, DECnet-VAX, and VAXcluster Software may be different from current 
hardware requirements. For configuration details about VAX hardware, 
refer to the VAX System and Options Catalog and the Networks and Com-
munications Buyers Guide.

Refer to the individual SPDs for DECnet-VAX (SPD 48.48.xx), DECnet/OSI
(SPD 25.03.xx) and VAXcluster Software (SPD 29.78.xx) for detailed prod-
uct information.

Terminals and Terminal Line Interfaces

To prevent input from overflowing a buffer, terminals use the ASCII
control characters DC1 and DC3 for synchronization as defined by 
Digital's DEC STD 111, Revision A.

The following table lists the terminals that are supported by OpenVMS 
VAX:

VT52           		VT100-series        	LA-series

VT300-series         	VT1000-series	        LQP02

VT200-series	        VT500-series





                                59

 

Terminals on Professional 350, Rainbow 100, and DECmate II systems 
emulate VT100 terminals.

Only limited support is available for the VT52. The VT131, when run-
ning an application, operates in block mode. When interacting with 
OpenVMS VAX and its associated utilities, the VT131 operates only in 
VT100 (or interactive) mode and not in block mode.

Note: The VT1000 is a monochrome windowing terminal that supports 
standard ANSI applications and "X" windows. The transport protocols 
supported are LAT for VMS. The product supports 15-inch and 19-inch 
monitors.

Disks

To support OpenVMS VAX, a system disk of greater than 100 MB is rec-
ommended. To support OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows Motif, a system disk
of greater than 150 MB is recommended. This does not include the dump
file space. When a smaller disk is used (please reference the disks
listed in this SPD for any support restrictions), additional tailoring 
could be required prior to installing some OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows 
Motif options. Refer to the OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 Upgrade and In-
stallation Manual for information on tailoring.

For the disks that have been introduced since the last edition of 
the OpenVMS VAX Operating System SPD, the minimum required version 
of OpenVMS VAX for these disks is listed.

EF51R      107 MB solid        (DSSI) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

EF52R      205 MB solid        (DSSI) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

EF53       267 MB solid        (DSSI) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

ESE-20     120 MB solid        (MSCP)
           state disk.

                                60

 


ESE-52     120 MB solid        (MSCP) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

ESE-56     600 MB solid        (MSCP) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

ESE-58     960 MB solid        (MSCP) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

EZ51R      100 MB solid        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

EZ54R      467 MB solid        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

EZ58R      855 MB solid        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           state disk.

RA60       205 MB removable    (MSCP)
           disk drive.

RA70       280 MB fixed        (MSCP)
           disk drive.

RA71       700 MB fixed        (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
           disk drive.

RA72       1 GB fixed disk     (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
           drive.

RA73       2 GB fixed disk     (MSCP) (V5.5-2)
           drive.

RA80***    128 MB fixed        (MSCP)
           disk drive.

RA81       456 MB fixed        (MSCP)
           disk drive.

RA82       622 MB fixed        (MSCP)
           disk drive.

RA90       1.2 GB fixed        (MSCP)
           disk drive.

RA92       1.5 GB fixed        (MSCP)
           disk drive.

                                61

 


RC25*      2 disks each 26     (Q-bus, UNIBUS)
           MB (1 fixed and
           1 removable)
           disk drive with
           shared spindle.

RD32*      VAX 42 MB fixed
           disk drive for
           MicroVAX 2000
           and VAXstation
           2000.

RD51*      10 MB fixed disk    (Q-bus)
           drive.

RD52*      31 MB fixed disk    (Q-bus)
           drive.

RD53*      71 MB fixed disk    (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
           drive.              MicroVAX 2000)

RD54       159 MB fixed        (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
           disk drive.         MicroVAX 2000)

RF30       150 MB fixed        (DSSI)
           disk drive.

RF31F      200 MB fixed        (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
           disk drive.

RF31-JA    381 MB shock-       (DSSI)
           mounted re-
           movable disk
           drive.

RF31-KA    381 MB fixed        (DSSI)
           disk drive.

RF31T      381 MB fixed        (DSSI) (V5.5-2)
           disk drive.

RF35       800 MB fixed        (DSSI) (V5.5)
           disk drive.

                                62

 


RF36       1.6 GB fixed        (DSSI) (V6.0)
           disk drive.

RF71       400 MB fixed        (DSSI)
           disk drive.

RF72       1 GB fixed disk     (DSSI) (V5.5-2)
           drive.

RF73       2 GB fixed disk     (DSSI) (V5.5)
           drive.

RF74       3.5 GB fixed        (DSSI) (V6.0)
           disk drive.

RK06*      14 MB removable     (UNIBUS)
           disk drive.

RK07*      28 MB removable     (UNIBUS)
           disk drive.

RL02*      10 MB removable     (UNIBUS)
           disk drive.

RM03+      67 MB removable     (MASSBUS)
           disk drive.

RM05       256 MB removable    (MASSBUS)
           disk drive.

RM80***    124 MB fixed        (MASSBUS)
           disk drive.

R80**      124 MB fixed
           disk drive for
           VAX-11/725 and
           VAX-11/730.

RRD40*     600 MB read-only    (Q-bus and SCSI)
           optical disk
           drive.

RRD42      600 MB read-only    (SCSI) (V5.4-2)
           optical disk
           drive.

                                63

 


RRD43      680 MB read-only    (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           optical disk
           drive.

RRD50*     600 MB read-only    (Q-bus)
           optical disk
           drive.

RP05**     88 MB removable     (MASSBUS)
           disk drive.

RP06       176 MB removable    (MASSBUS)
           disk drive.

RP07       516 MB fixed        (MASSBUS)
           disk drive.
           (2.2 MB/sec
           transfer rate is
           supported if the
           RH780 is at REV
           B1 or greater
           for the VAX-11
           /780, VAX-11
           /785, VAX 8600
           and VAX 8650.)

RX02*      512 KB diskette     (UNIBUS)
           drive. The RX02
           drive also
           writes using
           single-density
           RX01 diskettes.

RX23       1.47 MB diskette    (SCSI)
           drive.

RX26       2.8 MB diskette     (SCSI) (V5.5)
           drive.

                                64

 


RX33*      1.2 MB diskette     (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
           drive. Requires     MicroVAX 2000)
           minimum RQDX3
           microcode of
           V3.0.

RX50*      400 KB diskette     (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
           drive.              MicroVAX 2000)

RV20*      2 GB Write          (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
           Once Read Many
           optical disk
           drive.

RV64*      2 GB Write          (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
           Once Read Many
           optical disk
           sub-system.

RZ22*      52 MB fixed disk    (SCSI)
           drive.

RZ23**     104 MB fixed        (SCSI)
           disk drive.

RZ23L***   121 MB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.4-1)
           disk drive.

RZ24       209 MB fixed        (SCSI)
           disk drive.

RZ24L      240 MB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
           disk drive.

RZ25       425 MB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
           disk drive.

RZ25L      500 MB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           disk drive.

RZ26       1.0 GB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           disk drive.


                                65

 

RZ26B      1.0 GB fixed        (SCSI) (V6.0)
           disk drive.

RZ26L      1.0 GB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           disk drive.

RZ28       2.1 GB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           disk drive.

RZ28B      2.1 GB fixed        (SCSI) (V6.0)
           disk drive.

RZ35       852 MB fixed        (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
           disk drive.

RZ55       332 MB fixed        (SCSI)
           disk drive.

RZ56       665 MB fixed        (SCSI)
           disk drive.

RZ57       1 GB fixed disk     (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
           drive.

RZ58       1.35 GB fixed       (SCSI) (V5.5)
           disk drive.

RZ73       2.0 GB fixed        (SCSI) (V6.0)
           disk drive.

RZ74       3.5 GB fixed        (SCSI) (V6.0)
           disk drive.

*    Device cannot be used as an OpenVMS VAX system disk.

**   Device cannot be used as an OpenVMS VAX system disk with
     DECwindows Motif environment.

***  Specific tailoring is required in order to use this device 
     as an OpenVMS VAX system disk with the DECwindows Motif 
     environment.


                                66

 

Disk Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise Integration
Center (SEIC)

RF30-RA    150 MB removable    (DSSI)
           disk drive.

RF31-RA    381 MB removable    (DSSI)
           disk drive.

RF71-RA    400 MB removable    (DSSI)
           disk drive.

RF71-RA    1 GB removable      (DSSI)
           disk drive.

RWZ01      594 MB optical      (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
           removable disk
           drive.

Tapes

TA78       STI TU78.           (MSCP)

TA79       STI TU79.           (MSCP)

TA81       STI TU81.           (MSCP)

TA90       1.2 GB, tape        (MSCP)
           cartridge sub-
           system. (5-inch
           200 MB cartridge)

TA90E      1.2 GB tape         (MSCP)
           cartridge sub-
           system. Compacts
           data records
           automatically.

TA91       High performance    (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
           tape drive.

TE16       9-track magnetic    (MASSBUS)
           tape drive.


                                67

 

TF70       290 MB TK70 tape    (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
           cartridge drive.

TF85       2.6 GB streaming    (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
           tape cartridge
           drive.

TF857      18.2 GB tape        (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
           cartridge
           loader.

TK50       95 MB, 5 1/4-       (Q-bus and SCSI)
           inch streaming
           tape cartridge
           drive.

TK70       296 MB, 5 1/4-      (Q-bus)
           inch streaming
           tape cartridge
           drive.

TLZ04      4 GB, 3.5-inch,     (SCSI)
           4mm tape drive.

TLZ06      4 GB, 3.5-inch,     (SCSI) (V5.5-1)
           4mm DAT tape
           drive.

TLZ6L      4 GB, 3.5-inch,     (SCSI) (V6.0)
           4mm DAT tape
           loader.

TS11       9-track magnetic    (UNIBUS)
           tape drive.

TU77       9-track magnetic    (MASSBUS)
           tape drive.

TU78       9-track magnetic    (MASSBUS)
           tape drive.

TU80       9-track magnetic    (UNIBUS)
           tape drive.


                                68

 

TU81       9-track magnetic    (UNIBUS)
           tape drive.

TU81-      Streaming 9-        (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
Plus       track magnetic
           tape drive.

TZ30       95 MB, 5 1/4-       (SCSI)
           inch, half-
           height, tape
           drive.

TZ85       2.6 GB, 5 1         (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
           /4-inch tape
           drive.

TZ857      18.2 GB tape        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           cartridge
           loader.

TZ86       6 GB, 5 1/4-        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           inch, tape
           drive.

TZ867      42 GB tape car-     (SCSI) (V6.0)
           tridge loader.

TZ87       20 GB, 5 1          (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           /4-inch, tape
           drive.

TZ877      140 GB, tape        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
           cartridge
           loader.

TZK10      320/525 MB QIC      (SCSI) (V5.4-2)
           (quarter inch
           cartridge) tape
           drive.


                                69

 

Tape Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise Integration
Center (SEIC)

TKZ09      5.25-inch, 5 GB,    (SCSI) (V6.0)
           8mm tape drive.

TKZ60      3480 compatible     (SCSI) (V6.0)
           tape drive.

TLZ08      5.25-inch, 2 GB,    (SCSI)
           8mm tape drive.

TS05       9-track magnetic    (Q-bus)
           tape drive.

TSZ05      1600 BPI, 9-        (SCSI)
           track tape
           drive.

TSZ07      1600/6250 BPI,      (SCSI) (V5.4-1)
           tape drive.

Controllers

DMB32-LP   VAXBI DMA parallel high speed line printer controller.

DRB32      High speed general purpose parallel interface for VAXBI
           (systems).

DMF32-LP   Synchronous/Asynchronous communication option with
           printer port for use on UNIBUS based systems.

HSC40      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
           TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum version of
           8.1.)

HSC50      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
           TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum version of
           4.1.)

HSC60      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
           TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum version of
           8.1.)

HSC65      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
           TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum version of
           8.1.)

                                70

 


HSC70      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
           TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum version of
           8.1.)

HSC90      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
           TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum version of
           8.1.)

HSC95      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
           TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum version of
           8.1.)

IDC        Integrated Disk Controller for VAX-11/725 and VAX-11
           /730 systems.

IDTC       Integral Disk and Tape Controller for VAX 8600 and VAX
           8650 systems.

LPA11-K    Microprocessor controller for laboratory acquisition
           I/O devices, accommodating up to two AD11-Ks, one
           AA11-K, one KW11-K, two AM11-Ks, and five DR11-Ks.
           One LPA11-K controller is supported per UNIBUS and a
           maximum of two are supported per system.

KDA50      Q-bus MSCP disk controller. The KDA50 disk controller
           supports up to four of the following drives: RA60,
           RA70, RA80, RA81, and RA82.

KDB50      VAXBI MSCP disk controller. The KDB50 disk controller
           supports up to four of the following drives: RA60,
           RA80, RA81, and RA82.

KDM70      The KDM70 is an XMI to CI mass-storage controller for
           SDI-STI devices.

KFMSA      XMI to DSSI bus adapter. This adapter allows up to
           seven DSSI storage devices to attach to the DSSI bus.
           (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed in a Multi-Host
           Configuration.)

                                71

 


KFQSA      Q-bus to DSSI bus adapter. This adapter allows up to
           seven DSSI storage devices to attach to the DSSI bus.
           (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed in a Multi-Host
           Configuration.)

KLESI      Q-bus, UNIBUS, and VAXBI tape controller for the TU81-
           Plus, RV20, or RC25.

KRQ50      Q-bus controller for the RRD40/RRD50 compact disc
           reader.

KZQSA      Q-bus to SCSI bus adapter. This adapter allows up to 7
           SCSI storage devices to attach to the SCSI bus.

KFDDA      VAX 4000 model 100 DSSI bus adapter. This adapter
           allows up to 7 DSSI storage devices to attach to the
           DSSI bus. (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed in a
           Multi-Host Configuration.)

KFDDB      VAX 4000 model 500/600/700 DSSI bus adapter. This
           adapter allows up to 7 DSSI storage devices to attach
           to the DSSI bus. (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed
           in a Multi-Host Configuration.)

LP11       UNIBUS parallel high-speed line printer controller for
           the LPxx printers.

LPV11      Q-bus parallel high-speed line printer controller.

RK711      UNIBUS disk controller for RK07 disk drives.

RL211      UNIBUS disk controller for the RL02 disk drive.

RQDXx      Q-bus disk controller for MicroVAX and VAXstation
           systems. There is an RQDX1, RQDX2, and an RQDX3 con-
           troller. The RQDXx disk controller supports as many as
           four disk units, with each RX50 diskette drive counting
           as two units. Due to controller limitations, the system
           supports a maximum of four devices; the number of RD/RX
           devices the system supports depends on the enclosure.
           The RQDX3 disk controller is required for the RD54 and
           the RX33 drives.

                                72

 


RX211      UNIBUS diskette controller for two RX02 drives. One
           RX211 diskette controller is supported per system.

RUX50      UNIBUS diskette controller for RX50 drives. One RUX50
           diskette controller is supported per system.

TM03       MASSBUS tape controller for the TE16 and TU77 magnetic
           tape drives.

TM32       BI-bus 9-track tape controller only with large record
           support.

TM78       MASSBUS tape controller for the TU78 magnetic tape
           drive.

TQK50      Q-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
           drive.

TQK70      Q-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape
           drive.

TS11       UNIBUS tape controller for the TS11 magnetic tape
           drive.

TBK50      BI-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
           drive.

TBK70      BI-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape
           drive.

TUK50      UNIBUS tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
           drive. One TUK50 tape controller is supported per sys-
           tem.

UDA50      UNIBUS MSCP disk controller. The UDA50 controller must
           have a minimum microcode version of REV 3. The UDA50
           controller supports up to 4 of the following disk
           drives: RA60, RA80, RA81, and RA82.


                                73

 


Controller Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise 
Integration Center (SEIC)

TSV05      Q-bus tape controller for the TS05 magnetic tape drive.

TSU05      UNIBUS tape controller for the TS05 magnetic tape
           drive.


MASSBUS Adapter/Tape Subsystems

These include a MASSBUS adapter, a tape formatter, and a transport (a
TU77 for the TxU77 subsystems, a TE16 transport for TxE16 subsystem,
or a TU78 for the TEU78 subsystem).

A maximum of three additional TU77 magnetic tape transports can be added
to a TxU77 subsystem and a maximum of seven additional TE16 magnetic
tape transports can be added to a TxE16 subsystem. Different magnetic
tape transports cannot be mixed on the same tape subsystem.

With disks and magnetic tape transports mixed on the same MASSBUS, the
following rules apply:

o  Disks can be added to a magnetic tape subsystem to a maximum of 
   seven additional disks per tape subsystem.

o  Tapes cannot be added to a disk subsystem.

Asynchronous Terminal Controllers

CXA16      16-line serial terminal multiplexer (DEC-423), maximum
           baud rate supported: 38400. (No modem control) (Q-bus)

CXB16      16-line serial terminal multiplexer (RS422), maximum
           baud rate supported: 38400. (No modem control) (Q-bus)

CXY08      8-line serial terminal multiplexer (RS232), maximum
           baud rate supported: 19200. (Full modem control) (Q-bus)

DHB32      16-line asynchronous terminal controller for VAXBI,
           maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (VAXBI)

                                74

 


DHF11      32-line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423),
           maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (No modem control)
           (Q-bus)

DHT32      8-line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423). (No
           modem control) (MicroVAX 2000)

DHQ11      8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
           or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (Full
           modem control) (Q-bus)

DHU11      16-line asynchronous terminal controller (RS-232-C),
           maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19200;
           DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Full modem control) (UNIBUS)

DHV11      8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C 
           or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS
           VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Full modem control)
           (Q-bus)

DMB32      8-line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum baud
           rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600.
           (Full modem control) (VAXBI)

DMF32      8-line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum baud
           rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600.
           (Full modem control on first 2 lines) (UNIBUS)

DMZ32      24-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C 
           or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS
           VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Modem support dependent
           on configuration) (UNIBUS)

DZ11       8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C 
           or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600.
           (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

DZ32       8-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C 
           or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600.
           (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

                                75

 


DZQ11      4-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
           or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: OpenVMS
           VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Partial modem control)
           (Q-bus)

DZV11      4-line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
           or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: OpenVMS
           VAX, 19200; DECnet-VAX, 9600. (Partial modem control)
           (Q-bus)

Integral Asynchronous Serial Lines for the MicroVAX 2000 and 
VAXstation 2000

On the MicroVAX 2000, one line is the modem/data line and three are
data-only lines. On the VAXstation 2000, the lines support keyboard,
mouse, modem connection, and printer or plotter. DECnet-VAX supports
all four asynchronous data/modem RS-232C serial lines up to 9.6 KBPS
on the integral 4-line asynchronous controller for MicroVAX 2000.

Synchronous Controllers

The VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers software product contains the
synchronous device drivers and is required when using synchronous com-
munication options. Refer to SPD 29.64.xx for more information.

DMB32      Point-to-point synchronous interface. (VAXBI)

DMC11      High-speed local point-to-point synchronous inter-
           face; retired device, no longer offered as an option.
           (UNIBUS)

DMF32      Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
           (UNIBUS)

DMP11      Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface;
           (UNIBUS) retired device, no longer offered as an 
           option.

DMR11      Remote point-to-point synchronous interface; (UNIBUS)
           replaces DMC11.

                                76

 


DMV11      Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
           (Q-bus)

DPV11      Synchronous, 1 line, half or full-duplex point-to-point
           communication interface supporting DDCMP, HDLC, SDLC,
           or BISYNC protocols.

DSB32      Two-line, multiple protocol, synchronous adapter.
           (VAXBI)

DSH32      One-line synchronous (full modem control) and 8-line
           asynchronous (no modem control) communications con-
           troller for the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423 devices are sup-
           ported. Maximum baud rates supported: OpenVMS VAX, 19.2
           KBPS (kilobits/second); 9.6 KBPS for MicroVAX 2000, etc.

DST32      Synchronous single-line support for DDCMP up to 9.6 KBPS, 
           full duplex for MicroVAX 2000 systems. Concurrent use with 
           the DHT32 is not supported.

DSV11      Synchronous, 2-line, half or full-duplex point-to-point
           communication interface supporting DDCMP (1 or 2 lines
           up to 64 KBPS).

DSF32      DEC WANcontroller 620 - Two-line synchronous commu-
           nications controller designed specifically for the
           VAXft 3000 processors, supporting DDCMP. DDCMP is sup-
           ported at speeds up to 64 KBPS per line for a two-line
           operation.

LAN Options

DEUNA      Ethernet to UNIBUS controller.

DELUA      Ethernet to UNIBUS controller. The minimum revision
           level required is F1.

DEBNA      Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

DEBNI      Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

                                77

 


DEMFA      The DEMFA is a high performance network adapter that
           connects XMI systems to both Ethernet and IEEE FDDI
           (Fiber Distributed Data Interconnect) local area net-
           works.

DEMNA      The DEMNA is a high performance network adapter that
           connects XMI systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE
           802.3 local area networks.

DESVA      Ethernet controller interface.

DEQNA      Ethernet controller to Q-bus. The minimum revision
           level required is K3. All systems utilizing a DEQNA
           must operate with software data checking enabled. Since
           AUTOGEN will automatically set the correct parameter,
           no system management intervention is required. Not
           supported by VAXcluster software. Not supported for
           any interfaces except for access using QIO or ALTSTART
           interfaces.

DELQA      Ethernet controller to Q-bus. This is the replacement
           for DEQNA. The minimum revision level required is C3.

DESQA      Ethernet controller to Q-bus for S-BOX configurations.

DEFQA      FDDI to Q-bus controller

DEFZA      FDDI to TURBOchannel controller

DEFTA      FDDI to TURBOchannel controller

KFE52      DSSI/Ethernet Adapter for the VAXft 3000. Minimum of
           two adapters per system providing redundant connection
           to the Ethernet and the DSSI buses.

CI Options

VAXcluster Software may support multiple CI adapters per system. Re-
fer to the VAXcluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) for
the supported configurations.

CI750      CI Adapter for VAX-11/750 systems. (Minimum microcode
           version REV 8.7 is required.)

                                78

 


CI780      CI Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and
           VAX 8650 systems. (Minimum microcode version REV 8.7 is
           required.)

CIBCI      CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode version 
           REV 8.7 is required.)

CIBCA-AA   Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode
           version REV 7.5 is required.)

CIBCA-BA   Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode
           version REV 5.2 is required.)

CIXCD-AA   Native CI Adapter for VAX 9xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
           microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

CIXCD-AB   Native CI Adapter for VAX 6xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
           microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

CIXCD-AC   Native CI Adapter for VAX 7/10xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
           microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

Miscellaneous

CR11       Card reader. One CR11 card reader is supported per
           system. (UNIBUS)

DRV11-WA   General purpose DMA interface. (Q-bus)

DR11-W     General purpose high-speed DMA interface - one DR11-W
           interface supported per UNIBUS.

DR750      High performance general purpose interface for the
           VAX-11/750. One DR750 interface is supported per sys-
           tem. This device may not be used in conjunction with
           the CI750.

DR780      High performance general purpose interface for the
           VAX-11/780 and VAX-11/785. One DR780 interface is sup-
           ported per system. On the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650 as many 
           as four per system are permitted provided that the
           M8297-YA is used.

DWBUA      XMI to UNIBUS adapter.

                                79

 


DWMBA      XMI to BI adapter; also the adapter used to connect the
           XMI to VAX expander cabinet.

DWMVA      XMI to VME adapter.

DW750      UNIBUS Adapter for second UNIBUS for the VAX-11/750
           system.

DW780      UNIBUS Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX 8600 and VAX 8650.

FP730      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/730 system.

FP750      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/750 system.

FP780      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/780 system.

FP785      Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/785 system.

FP86-AA    Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX 8600 and VAX
           8650 systems.

FV64A      Vector Processing option for the VAX 6000-400.

H7112      Memory battery backup for VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780,
           VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems. This is
           required for power-fail/recovery.

KE780      G and H floating point microcode for the VAX-11/780
           system.

KU780      User-writable control store for the VAX-11/780 system.

RH750      MASSBUS adapter for the VAX-11/750 system.

RH780      MASSBUS controller for the VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785,
           VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems.

SBI        System Backplane Interconnect for the VAX-11/780,
           VAX-11/785, and I/O BUS for the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650
           systems.

VS40X      4-plane graphics coprocessor.

WS01X      VAXstation 3100 SPX Graphics option.

                                80

 


InfoServer  InfoServer 100 is a standalone Ethernet-based virtual
100         disk server. The server has locally attached SCSI re-
            movable CD-ROMs and SCSI disk storage. VMS Version
            5.5 supports virtual disk reads. For other features,
            please refer to the InfoServer 100/150 Software Product
            Descriptions.


Acronyms

DSSI       Digital Storage Systems Interconnect

FDDI       Fiber Distributed Data Interconnect

MSCP       Mass Storage Control Protocol

SCSI       Small Computer System Interconnect

SDI        Standard Drive Interface

STI        Standard Tape Interface

TMSCP      Tape Mass Storage Control Protocol

XMI        Extended Memory Interconnect


The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

 1994 Digital Equipment Corporation.
  All rights reserved.

[R]   Adobe, Display PostScript, and PostScript are registered
      trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated

[R]   IBM is a registered trademark of International Business
      Machines Corporation.

[R]   IEEE is a registered trademark and POSIX is a registered
      certification mark of the Institute of Electrical and 
      Electronics Engineers.

[R]   Motif and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks of Open 
      Software Foundation, Inc.


                                81

 


[R]   OSF is a registered trademark of the Open Software 
      Foundation, Inc.

[R]   Sun is a registered symbol of Sun Microsystems, Inc.

[TM]  Open Software Foundation is a trademark of the Open Software
      Foundation, Inc.

[TM]  X/Open is a trademark of X/Open Company Limited.

[TM]  X Window System is a trademark of Mass. Institute of 
      Technology.

[TM]  The DIGITAL logo, ACMS, AXP, BI, Bookreader, CI, CMI, DBMS,
      DDCMP, DEC, DECdtm, DECintact, DECmate, DECnet, DECprint,
      DECram, DEC Rdb, DECscheduler, DECthreads, DECtp, DECTPU,
      DECwindows, DELUA, DEQNA, DEUNA, Digital, DNA, DRB32, EDT,
      HSC, HSC40, HSC50, HSC60, HSC70, HSC90, InfoServer, KDA,
      KDM, KLESI, KRQ50, LA, LAT, LQP02, MASSBUS, MicroVAX, MSCP,
      NMI, OpenVMS, POLYCENTER, Q-bus, RA, RC, RC25, RK, RL, RM,
      RP, RQDX1, RQDX2, RQDX3, RRD42, RRD50, RUX50, RV20, RX,
      RX02, RX33, RX50, RZ, SBI, TA, TE, StorageWorks, TEU78, TK,
      TM, TMSCP, TQK50, TS, TS05, TS11, TU, UDA, UETP, UNIBUS,
      VAX, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX BLISS-32, VAX C, VAX COBOL,
      VAX DIBOL, VAX FORTRAN, VAX MACRO, VAX Pascal, VAX SCAN,
      VAXBI, VAXcluster, VMScluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation,
      VMS, VT100, VT300, VT1000, and XUI are trademarks of Digital
      Equipment Corporation.










                                82
