 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX,       SPD 27.29.11
               Version 6.1

DESCRIPTION

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX is a System Integrated Product (SIP)
that runs on the VAX family of processors. Volume Shadowing for Open-
VMS VAX implements a RAID Level 1 storage strategy that provides high
data availability for disk devices by preventing data loss resulting
from media deterioration or controller or device failure. It prevents
storage subsystem component failures from interrupting system or ap-
plication operations.

Volume shadowing, sometimes referred to as disk mirroring, maintains
multiple redundant copies of data on a collection of disks called a
shadow set. Shadow sets consist of one, two, or three compatible disk
volumes that are referred to as shadow set members. This duplication
of data provides enhanced data availability; if data is recorded on
multiple disk volumes, it remains accessible if one volume becomes 
unavailable. Disk read and write operations continue transparently 
with the remaining members of the shadow set.

Because a shadow set is made up of multiple disks containing the same
data, the Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX software can read data from
any member of the shadow set. For each read operation, the Volume Shad-
owing for OpenVMS VAX software determines which disk to read from using 
an algorithm that maximizes performance. Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS 
VAX ensures that disk write operations are duplicated on all shadow set 
members. For maximum performance, Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX en-
sures that shadow set write operations are issued to shadow set members 
in parallel.


                              DIGITAL                    April 1994

                                                        AE-PY1JB-TE

 

If some data on a shadow set member becomes unreadable, the shadowing 
software can read the data from another available member. Additionally, 
with Digital Storage Architecture (DSA) disks, the member with unread-
able data can be repaired by rewriting the data to good, replacement 
areas provided on each disk. Small Computer Systems Interface (SCSI) 
devices certified by Digital for use with volume shadowing, support 
data repair. For other SCSI devices, replacement and repair algorithms 
are device specific.

OpenVMS VAX system disks and any Files-11 On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS-2) 
data disks that are certified by Digital can be volume shadowed.

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX implements a host-based (phase II)
approach to shadowing disk devices. Controller-based shadowing (phase 
I), which has been available in the past, is no longer supported on
OpenVMS VAX. See the Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS manual for more 
information about moving from phase I to phase II.

For the purposes of this document, the term CPU is used to refer to
a single VAX computer, containing one or more processors. A CPU can
be a standalone system or a member of a VMScluster system. Also, in
this document, the term VMScluster refers to a cluster that may con-
tain a mix of VAX systems and Alpha AXP systems configured together.

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX supports VMScluster wide shadowing
of all Digital SCSI and DSA disk storage systems. This implementation
supports:

o  HSC controlled disks

o  All DSA and Digital SCSI controllers that are locally connected 
   to a CPU

o  RF-series controllers and disks connected to the Digital Storage 
   Systems Interconnect (DSSI)

Volume Shadowing also supports OpenVMS VAX served DSA and Digital 
SCSI disks located within any supported VMScluster configuration. 
Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX allows the shadowing of disks that 
are accessible from the VAX system on which shadowing is installed. 
An OpenVMS VAX system parameter enables shadowing at system initial-
ization.

                                 2

 

Characteristics

Configuration Overview:

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX requires a minimum of one CPU, a disk
controller, and a disk unit that is either DSA compliant or SCSI com-
pliant. Although only one disk is required, there must be two or more
disks in a shadow set in order to maintain multiple copies of the same
data. This protects against failure or deterioration of a single volume.

Using two controllers provides a further guarantee of data availability 
in the event that a single controller fails. VMScluster systems can be 
configured with multiple CPUs, interconnects, controllers, and disks; 
the resulting configurations can provide extremely high data avail-
ability.

Shadow Set Membership:

A shadow set can have one, two, or three members. After the failure
of one member of a two-member shadow set, the shadow set can continue
operation with the remaining single member.

Shadow set members can be added to or removed from the shadow set at
any time without affecting system or user operation.

A disk can be removed from the shadow set either by operator command
or automatically by the shadowing software. An inoperative disk is re-
moved from the shadow set automatically; operator intervention is not
required.

A disk is added to a shadow set on explicit operator command only. The
shadowing software ensures that the data on the newly added disk is
made consistent with the other member(s) by means of a copy operation.
Full read and write access to the shadow set continues while the copy
operation is in progress.



                                 3

 

Transparency to the End User:

To users and application programs, Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX
transparently combines the physical members of a given shadow set into
a single virtual disk. The shadow set virtual disk acts as a single
disk; user or application program modifications are not necessary to
propagate write data to all of the members of a shadow set; Volume 
Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX software propagates the data to all shadow 
set members automatically. Similarly, user and application read oper-
ations to the virtual disk are transparently routed to the optimal 
physical shadow set member.

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX is invisible to application programs
and users. All commands and programming language features that address
data on unshadowed disks can be used unchanged to address data on shad-
owed disks.

Compatibility

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX is compatible and can interoperate
with Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS AXP. The use of both products in a
mixed-architecture cluster (VAX and AXP machines clustered together)
can enable the sharing of data disks between VAX and Alpha AXP systems. 
System disks, however, cannot be shared between VAX and Alpha AXP 
systems in a cluster.

Configuration Limits

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX supports a maximum of 130 shadow sets
in a standalone or VMScluster system. This limit is independent of con-
troller and device type.

Configuration Restrictions

Controller-based shadowing is no longer supported on OpenVMS VAX. For-
mer phase I shadow sets can be mounted as phase II shadow sets and then
accessed.

All members of a given shadow set must be of the same disk type and
have identical geometry (for example, all RA92 disks or all RF73 disks).


                                 4

 

Shadow set members cannot have hardware write protection enabled. Hard-
ware write protection stops volume shadowing software from maintaining 
identical volumes.

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX does not support shadow sets mounted
with the /FOREIGN qualifier.

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX provides support for all Digital SCSI
disks and controllers. It is also possible to use shadowing with third
party SCSI disks that have READL (read long) and WRITEL (write long)
commands implemented and that use the OpenVMS VAX SCSI disk driver.
Functionality is restricted when SCSI disks that do not support READL
and WRITEL are shadowed; disk bad-block errors resulting from the use
of these disks can cause members to be removed from the shadow set.
The OpenVMS VAX Mount utility, by default, does not permit SCSI disks
to become members of a shadow set if they do not implement READL and
WRITEL. This behavior can be overridden with the MOUNT qualifier 
/NO_FORCED_ERROR, but to do so, places the data on these disks in 
jeopardy.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX does not depend on specific hardware
in order to operate. All shadowing functions can be performed on any
supported CPU. Members of a shadow set can be located on a single CPU
or anywhere in a VMScluster system. There are no restrictions on the
location of shadow set members beyond the valid disk configurations
defined in the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Descrip-
tion (SPD 25.01.xx) and the VAXcluster Software Product Description
(SPD 29.78.xx).

Disk Controller Support:

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX supports all HSC controllers, DSSI
adapters, and local DSA or Digital SCSI controllers, as defined in 
the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 
25.01.xx).



                                 5

 

Disk Drive Support:

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX supports all EF, ESE, RA, RF, RD, and
RZ-series disk devices, as defined in the OpenVMS VAX Operating System 
Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx), with the following con-
straints:

o  Shadow sets can mix HSC disks that are cached by the HSC Cache 
   option with disks that are not cached.

o  KDM70 controllers must be at a minimum microcode revision 4.3.

o  The UDA50 UNIBUS controller does not support the ESE-series devices.

o  The integrated disk controller provided in MicroVAX 2000 systems
   is not DSA compliant and is not supported by Volume Shadowing for
   OpenVMS VAX.

o  RD-series disk drives can only be shadowed when connected to RQDX-
   series disk controllers.

o  RF35 and RF73 disk devices must use microcode version T387, or later.

VMScluster Environment

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX is fully supported in a VMScluster
when installed on any valid and licensed configuration. Volume Shad-
owing for OpenVMS VAX allows shadowing of disks that are locally con-
nected to the VAX system on which this software is installed. In ad-
dition, Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX allows a user on the OpenVMS 
VAX system to shadow disks connected to other VAX and AXP systems
within the VMScluster.

A VAXcluster quorum disk cannot be shadowed.

For additional information, refer to the VAXcluster Software Product
Description (SPD 29.78.xx).




                                 6

 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 is a System Integrated
Product that requires OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1.

For additional information, refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System 
Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

The following minimum software revisions are required for HSC sub-
systems:

o  HSC Software Version 8.35 for the HSC40, HSC60, HSC65, HSC70, 
   HSC90, and HSC95

o  HSC Software Version 4.1 for the HSC50

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version
of this product may be different from the requirements for the current 
version.

DISTRIBUTION AND INSTALLATION

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX Version 6.1 is a System Integrated
Product that is distributed and installed with the OpenVMS VAX oper-
ating system Version 6.1.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-AB2A*-**
Software Per-Disk Licenses: QL-2A1AA-3B
Software Documentation: QA-AB2AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-AB2A*-**

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information about available
   licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.



                                 7

 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.

License Management Facility Support:

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX supports the OpenVMS License Manage-
ment Facility (LMF).

Licenses for Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS VAX are sold on either a 
capacity or a per-disk basis.

A capacity license allows a varying number of disks to be shadowed on
a single CPU, up to the maximum specified under "Configuration Limits." 
When using a capacity licensing scheme in a VMScluster, every CPU in a 
VMScluster that mounts a shadow set must have a properly sized Volume 
Shadowing capacity license installed.

Alternatively, licenses are available on a per-disk basis using con-
current user licensing. With this type of licensing, one per-disk li-
cense is required for every disk which may become a member of a shadow
set. The per-disk license is attached to a particular disk during the
MOUNT process. That disk can then be included in a shadow set by any
OpenVMS VAX member or OpenVMS AXP member of the VMScluster with access 
to that disk.

Both methods of licensing can coexist in a single VMScluster.

For more information about the License Management Facility, refer to
the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 
25.01.xx) or the OpenVMS License Management Utility Manual of the 
OpenVMS VAX documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.




                                 8

 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
formation, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
Addendum of this SPD.

The above information is valid at the time of release. Please contact
your local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

© 1994 Digital Equipment Corporation.
  All rights reserved.

[TM] The DIGITAL logo, Digital, HSC, HSC40, HSC50, HSC60, HSC65,
     HSC70, HSC90, HSC95, KDM, MicroVAX, MSCP, OpenVMS, RA, RD, 
     RF, RQDX, RZ, UDA, UNIBUS, VAX, VAXcluster, and VMScluster 
     are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

















                                 9
