 






                                        DIGITAL

          Software
          Product
          Description

          ___________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5       SPD 25.38.23
                         DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          DESCRIPTION

          DEC C is an ANSI-compliant implementation of the C programming lan-
          guage with Digital extensions. The DEC C compiler runs under the Open-
          VMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha Operating Systems and generates optimized
          and position-independent code.

          DEC C is a native-mode language product, and is integrated into the
          OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha Common Language Environments. All Open-
          VMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha system services are available to programs
          written in DEC C. DEC C programs can invoke, as functions, modules writ-
          ten in other VAX and Alpha languages.

          DEC C supports OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha Record Management Ser-
          vices (RMS) for sequential file organizations and associated access
          methods. DEC C also supports stream file-access methods common among
          many C implementations.

          DEC C provides extensive ANSI C conformance checking, and supports the
          lint-like features of the DEC Source Code Analyzer. The DEC Source Code
          Analyzer allows the programmer to check for consistent function us-
          age throughout a program environment. DEC C also generates complete
          debug and traceback records for use with OpenVMS Debug. Debug allows
          the C programmer to set breakpoints, examine and modify the contents
          of user variables, and selectively halt or continue program execution.

          DEC C on OpenVMS Alpha provides IEEE support as defined by, and in con-
          formance with, the ANSI/IEEE Standard 754.

          Features

                                                                 October 1996

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          o  Separate modes of compilation to support each of five C dialects:


             -  A strict ANSI mode that compiles according to the ANSI standard

             -  A relaxed ANSI mode that compiles according to the ANSI stan-
                dard but accepts additional Digital extensions

             -  A VAX C mode that supports VAX C extensions

             -  A common mode that supports many common usage C constructs as
                implemented on UNIX® systems including Digital UNIX (also called
                "K&R" C or "pcc" mode)

             -  A Microsoft compatibility mode that interprets source programs
                according to certain language rules followed by the C compiler
                provided with the Microsoft Visual C++ compiler product.

          In addition, the features specified by Addendum 1 to the ISO C stan-
          dard adopted by ISO in November of 1994 (digraphs and the __STDC_VERSION__
          predefined macro) can be added to each of these dialects except for
          VAX C mode.

          o  Data types for numeric, nonnumeric, and systems programming:

             -  DEC C supports, 8, 16, and 32-bit signed and unsigned integers.
                DEC C OpenVMS Alpha also supports 64-bit signed and unsigned in-
                tegers.

             -  DEC C supports 32-bit float and 64-bit double floating-point data
                types. The VAX floating-point formats include D-float and G-float
                and are user selectable.

             -  DEC C OpenVMS Alpha also supports IEEE format and offers user
                selectable 64-bit or 128-bit precision for the long double data
                type.

             -  DEC C supports passing numeric constants by reference in func-
                tion calls.

          ____________________
          + Microsoft is a registered trademark and Visual C++ is a trademark of

            Microsoft Corporation.

                                           2

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

             -  DEC C supports the multibyte and wide-character types and fea-
                tures of XPG4, with the locale support available in OpenVMS V6.2
                and subsequent versions.

             -  DEC C OpenVMS Alpha, on OpenVMS Version 7.0 and later, supports
                user-controlled features to specify the use of 64-bit pointers
                that allow applications to exploit the increased address space
                capabilities of the Alpha architecture and OpenVMS Alpha Ver-
                sion 7.0 services. These features include command line quali-
                fiers, #pragma directives, and run-time library specifications
                that allow the programmer to allocate and access data at run time
                that is to be beyond the range of addressing afforded by 32-bit
                pointers. By default, programs compiled by earlier versions of
                the compiler or on earlier versions of OpenVMS continue to be-
                have as before, strictly within 32-bit address space. Explicit
                use of the new compiler features allow such programs to be ex-
                tended to exploit the extended address space with minimal changes
                to the source code.

          o  Storage allocation using:

             -  Reserved words (globalref, globaldef, and globalvalue) for shar-
                ing data among program modules

             -  Reserved words (readonly, noshare, and psect name specification)
                for control of data attributes and data placement

             -  Reserved words (_align and __unaligned)  for specifying the align-
                ment boundaries of data objects

             -  Pragmas to control extern models and structure member alignment
                and base structure alignment

          o  Option for running only the preprocessor phase of compilation

          o  Option for generating include-file dependency information to aid
             in construction of files for the DEC Module Management System

          o  Pragmas to control compiler options

          o  Compilation options allowing a choice between fast turnaround and
             optimization across compilation units

                                           3

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          o  Compiler-generated listing file including optional:

             -  Source Code

             -  Include-file contents

             -  Machine code

             -  Macro expansion

             -  Compilation statistics

          o  Built-in functions allow access to a subset of VAX and Alpha ma-
             chine instructions. DEC C OpenVMS Alpha inline-assembly code is also
             supported giving access to all Alpha machine-code instructions and
             PAL calls.

          o  Integration into the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha Common Language
             Environments:

             -  Generation of complete debug and traceback records for OpenVMS
                VAX and Alpha Debug support

             -  Conformance to the OpenVMS VAX and Alpha Calling Standard

             -  Access to the Common Run-Time Library for general purpose rou-
                tines and support of multilanguage environments

             -  Access to the data management facilities of OpenVMS VAX Record
                Management Services (RMS) by direct calls to the Common Run-Time
                Library

             -  Support for providing error diagnostics to the DEC Language- Sen-
                sitive Editor and cross-reference information for the DEC Source
                Code Analyzer

             -  Support for Common Data Dictionary (CDD)

             -  DEC C OpenVMS Alpha support of interaction with routines exe-
                cuting in translated (VAX) mode

          o  Extensive global and local optimizations of generated code for in-
             creased performance under OpenVMS

          o  Extensive control over optimization behavior

                                           4

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          o  Interface to the curses screen-manipulation package

          o  Installation kit cooperates with DEC C++ for OpenVMS VAX and Open-
             VMS Alpha systems

          Compatibility with Other C Implementations

          DEC C is a conforming hosted implementation of ANSI X3.159-1989 Pro-
          gramming Language C (ISO 9899:1990[1992]). It can operate in five dif-
          ferent modes: strict ANSI compatibility, relaxed ANSI compatibility
          (ANSI plus Digital extensions), VAX C compatibility mode, common C (pcc)
          compatibility mode, and Microsoft C compatibility mode. The last three
          modes provide many features to ease porting from other environments,
          though they do not provide 100% emulation of every feature of a par-
          ticular version of the compilers used in those environments.

          While many programs written in C for other compilers can be success-
          fully recompiled under DEC C, some incompatibilities among implemen-
          tations exist.

          Run-Time Library for C Applications

          With the exception of OpenVMS VAX Operating Systems prior to V6.1, the
          complete DEC C Run-Time Library that is needed for use with DEC C is
          distributed with the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha Operating Systems.
          The DEC C Run-Time Library provides routines to perform input/output,
          character and string handling, mathematical computations, memory al-
          location, and emulation of selected UNIX[R] features. These routines
          are provided both in shared image and object module library form.

          Run-time Library Redistribution for Older OpenVMS VAX Operating Sys-
          tems

          For OpenVMS VAX Operating Systems V5.5-2 - V6.0, the DEC C VAX kit in-
          cludes a separately packaged save set that contains additional or mod-
          ified run-time library components needed to execute programs devel-
          oped with the DEC C compiler. Revisions to the run-time components are




                                           5

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          shipped with the OpenVMS Operating System rather than the DEC C com-
          piler, and the components in this special DEC C saveset, or more re-
          cent replacements, are included with the OpenVMS Operating System for
          Versions 6.1 or later.

          Digital grants you a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world right to re-
          produce and distribute this save-set portion of the DEC C kit desig-
          nated as AACRT060.A (the "RTL") provided that you:

          o  distribute the entire RTL save set and copies of its accompanying
             installation documentation;

          o  distribute the RTL only in conjunction with and as part of your soft-
             ware application product which is designed to operate in the Open-
             VMS VAX environment;

          o  do not use Digital's name, logo, or trademarks to market your soft-
             ware application product;

          o  include Digital's copyright notice for DEC C on your product disk
             label and/or on the title page of the documentation for your soft-
             ware application product; and

          o  agree to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend Digital from and against
             any claims or lawsuits, including attorney's fees, that arise or
             result from the use or distribution of your software application
             product. Except as expressly provided herein, Digital grants no im-
             plied or expressed license under any of its patents, copyrights,
             trade secrets, trademarks, or any license or other proprietary in-
             terests and rights.

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          Processors Supported:

          Any Alpha system that is capable of running OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.1
          or higher or any VAX system that is capable of running OpenVMS VAX Ver-
          sion 5.5-2 or higher.

          Disk Space Requirements

                                           6

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5


                          DEC C          DEC C OpenVMS Alpha
                          OpenVMS
                          VAX

          Disk space      34,000         40,500 blocks
          required for    blocks         (20.2 Mbytes)
          installa-       (17.4
          tion:           Mbytes)
          Disk space      27,000         32,000 blocks
          required        blocks         (16.0 Mbytes)
          for use         (13.5
          (permanent:)    Mbytes)

          These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
          sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
          system environment, configuration, and software options.

          Memory Requirements for DECwindows Support:

          The minimum supported memory for this application running in a stand-
          dalone DECwindows environment with both the client and server execut-
          ing on that same system is 8 Mbytes.

          OPTIONAL HARDWARE

          Only D_, F_, and G_Floating point data types can be used in programs
          written in DEC C. DEC C does not support the H_Floating point data type
          on OpenVMS VAX Systems. Floating-point-intensive applications should
          be run on configurations with the appropriate hardware support for the
          floating-point data types being used. Consult the base operating sys-
          tem Software Product Description (SPD) for the appropriate floating-
          point accelerator or other floating-point hardware appropriate for your
          configuration.







                                           7

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

          This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
          and licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions. The HARD-
          WARE REQUIREMENTS section of this product's Software Product Descrip-
          tion details any special hardware required by this product.

          * VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster Soft-
          ware Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet, and Mixed
          Interconnect configurations.

          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

          o  DEC C OpenVMS VAX requires OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2 - Version 7.1

          o  DEC C OpenVMS Alpha requires OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.1 - Version
             7.1

          OpenVMS Tailoring:

          The following OpenVMS classes are required for full functionality of
          this layered product:

          o  OpenVMS Required Save Set

          o  Programming Support

          o  Utilities

          For more information on OpenVMS classess and tailoring, refer to the
          OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.XX)

          OPTIONAL SOFTWARE:

          o  DEC Language-Sensitive Editor/Source Code Analyzer Version 4.0 -
             4.2 for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha.

          o  DEC CDD/Repository Version 5.3 for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha.



                                           8

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

          The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
          this product may be different from the requirements for the current
          version.

          DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

          DEC C OpenVMS VAX ONLY:

          9-track 1600 BPI Magtape or TK50 Streaming Tape. DEC C OpenVMS VAX is
          also available as part of the OpenVMS VAX Consolidated Software Dis-
          tribution on CD-ROM (QA-VMJ8A-A8). The software documentation for DEC
          C is part of the OpenVMS VAX Online Documentation Library on CD-ROM.

          DEC C OpenVMS Alpha ONLY:

          This product is available on the Digital CD-ROM Software Library for
          OpenVMS Alpha (QA-03XAA-H8) or a CD-ROM containing only the DEC C for
          OpenVMS Alpha product (QA-MU7AA-H8). Documentation in hardcopy for-
          mat can be ordered separately.

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX ONLY:

          Software Licenses:

          Personal Use: QL-015A*-2B
          Concurrent Use: QL-015A*-3B
          Unlimited System Use: QL-015A*-**

          Software Media: QA-015A*-**
          Software Documentation: QA-015AA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-015A*-**

          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha ONLY:




                                           9

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          Personal Use: QL-015A*-2B
          Concurrent Use: QL-015A*-3B
          Unlimited Use: QL-MU7A*-**

          Software Media/Documentation: QA-MU7AA-H8
          Software Documentation: QA-MU7AA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-MU7A*.**

          * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
          censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
          about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
          ital office.

          This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
          ity.

          License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
          Use, plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

          Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
          layered product. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individ-
          ual at a time to use the layered product.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
          OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
          or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
          ing System documentation set.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
          formation, contact your local Digital office.





                                           10

 



          DEC C for OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5                     SPD 25.38.23
          DEC C for OpenVMS Alpha Version 5.5

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
          chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
          Addendum of this SPD.

          © 1996 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

          [TM] UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other
               countries licensed exclusively through X/Open Company Ltd.

          [TM] Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

          [TM] Visual C++ is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CDD/Repository, DEC, DEC C, DECwindows,
               Digital, OpenVMS, VAX, VAXcluster, VMS, are trademarks of
               Digital Equipment Corporation.























                                           11
