 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC Signaling System 7 (DECss7) for OpenVMS[*],  SPD
 34.19.00                Version 2.1

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC Signaling System 7 (DECss7) is a communication product. It allows
 VAX-based telecommunication applications to be connected to Signal-
 ing System Number 7 networks that conform to CCITT Blue-Book Recom-
 mendations (1988), or ANSI.

 Environment

 DECss7 provides end-node connectivity to a Signaling System 7 network.
 The connectivity can be used to provide "Home Location Registers" (HLR),
 "Authentication Centers" (AUC) or "Equipment Identity Registers" (EIR)
 in Mobile Networks, and "Service Control Points" (SCP) in Intelligent
 Networks.

 Components

 DECss7 implements the following functions:

 o  Message Transfer Part Level 1 (MTP1)

    For connection to the signaling network, DECss7 uses the standard
    Digital synchronous DSV11 Communications Controller with an exter-
    nal clock. Bit-rates up to 64 Kb/s are supported. One active chan-
    nel per DSV11 is supported, and a Front-End Processor can support
    a maximum of 2 DSV11s.

    V.35 and V.36/V.11 physical connections are available. E1 and T1
    connections can be provided with the use of a multiplexer.

 ____________________

 The   terms OpenVMS and VMS refer to the OpenVMS operating system.

                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-PHT5A-TE

 

 o  Message Transfer Part Level 2 (MTP2)

    DECss7 implements the Basic Error Correction method. For CCITT, only
    Discard is implemented. For ANSI, both Discard and Accept are im-
    plemented.

 o  Message Transfer Part Level 3 (MTP3)

    Discrimination: DECss7 implements end-node functions; DECss7 rec-
    ognizes itself as a single Point-Code.

    Distribution: DECss7 implements a single User-Part: SCCP.

    Routing: Associated and Quasi-Associated modes are supported. The
    maximum number of Destination Point-Codes (DPC) is parametrable at
    configuration (no logical limitation). There may be up to 16 Routes
    per DPC with a single LinkSet per Route. The way load-sharing or
    priority resolution are performed across Routes for a DPC or across
    Links for a LinkSet is settable during operation.

    Congestion: No procedure implemented.

    Traffic Management: MTP Restart is not implemented. All other pro-
    cedures are implemented.

    Link Management: DECss7 implements the basic link management pro-
    cedures.

    Route Management: Reception of Transfer Allowed/Prohibited messages
    is processed. Transfer Restricted messages are handled in ANSI, but
    not in CCITT. The Route-Set-Test procedure is implemented.

    Testing and Maintenance: DECss7 implements the procedures described
    in the Q.707 Recommendation. This is used for putting links into
    service and processing Adjacent Signaling Point Restart procedures.

 o  Signaling Connection Control Part (SCCP)

    DECss7 implements the two connectionless classes: Class 0 and Class
    1 (sequenced).

    No Global Title translation is performed, however Global Title ad-
    dressing is supported.

                                  2

 

 o  Transaction Capabilities Application Part (TCAP)

    DECss7 implements both the structured dialogue and unidirectional
    options.

 o  Management

    Any component of DECss7 is an entity that may be controlled and mon-
    itored: in particular, the applicable measurements specified in the
    Q.791 Recommendation are made accessible or may be deduced; sim-
    ilarly, any event (e.g., link failure) may be reported.

    For the design of the management structure of DECss7, the Digital
    Enterprise Management Architecture (EMA) (Director/Entity Frame-
    work) is used.

 Application Programming Interface

 The DECss7 application interface allows an application to open or close
 TCAP dialogues, to exchange components, and to handle special condi-
 tions which occur asynchronously during a dialogue.

 The procedures of the interface are mapped on the TCAP primitives and
 consist of a library of routines (requests and indications) linked to
 the application software.

 It is offered under the OpenVMS Operating System and can be called us-
 ing any programming language.

 Management Programming Interface

 This interface allows a management application to access the inter-
 nal functions of DECss7 to control and monitor them.

 It consists of a library of routines accessible under the OpenVMS Op-
 erating System and can be called using any programming language.

 DECss7 is shipped with a basic management application allowing it to
 configure and start a platform; it offers a command-line human inter-
 face.

 SCCP Management Messages Interface

                                  3

 

 Similar to the Management Programming Interface, this interface is a
 set of routines allowing an application to send or receive SCCP Man-
 agement Messages, exchanged with the signaling network or remote net-
 work users.

 Distributed Implementation

 DECss7 is designed to run on a distributed processing structure. The
 links of a LinkSet may be distributed across several Front-End Pro-
 cessors while having the same Signaling Point Code value. These Front-
 End Processors are interconnected, via Ethernet, with one or more Back-
 End Processors. Applications run on these Back-End processors. A given
 application, identified by its SubSystem Number, may have several copies
 running on different Back-End Processors. DECss7 is not supported on
 configurations which use an Ethernet bridge. Performance

 When run on the Front-End based on the VAX 4000-300 processor (refer
 to the HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS section), DECss7 has a throughput of 120
 incoming application-level Message Signal Units per second (MSU/s) and
 120 outgoing MSU/s; this amount of traffic may correspond to one or
 two active links per Front-End.

 Please contact your local Digital office for information on the per-
 formance of DECss7 on other 4000 series machines.

 The mean round-trip delay for a loop-back above the TCAP Application
 Programming Interface is 70ms. This does not include any delay due to
 the application itself.

 Dimensioning

 The sizing and configuring of a DECss7 platform depends on the num-
 ber of links required, performance goals, availability requirements,
 and the size of the application. For more information, contact your
 local Digital office.

 Modifications to the Product



                                  4

 

 DECss7 may be adapted to most of the country/operator specific inter-
 pretations of the Signaling System 7 protocol. The following is a list
 of possible modifications:

 o  Message Transfer Part Level 3 (MTP3)

    Have DECss7 recognize itself as several Point-Code values (aliases).

    Implement international or national congestion procedures.

    Process the Transfer Restricted procedure. Process the Transfer Con-
    trolled procedure assuming former finalization of Blue-Books rec-
    ommendation.

    Implement MTP Restart procedure when finalized by CCITT.

    Comply with 1984 (Red Books) or even 1980 (Yellow Books) CCITT Rec-
    ommendations.

 o  Signaling Connection Control Part (SCCP)

    Have an extensive Global Title translation, either based on algo-
    rithm or tables. In case of tables, they may be modified through
    the Management Programming Interface.

 o  Management

    In general, any specific requirement on measurements or event re-
    porting may be implemented.

 o  Application Programming Interface

    Offer to the programmer the SCCP Primitives of Service (X.213-like)
    instead of or in addition to the TCAP Application Programming In-
    terface. This is applicable in the Back-End processor.

 o  SCCP Management Messages Interface

    Offer this interface as part of the Application Programming Inter-
    face.

 o  Distribution

    Have a monolithic (single CPU) implementation of the whole proto-
    col.

                                  5

 

 For more information, contact your local Digital office.

 Using a customized DECss7 requires the customer and Digital to jointly
 plan a set of Customer Services.

 INSTALLATION

 Digital recommends that the customer's first purchase of this prod-
 uct include Digital Installation Services.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Front-End Processors

 The DECss7 product is qualified to run on Front-End processors , based
 on the VAX 4000 series of machines. For more information, refer to the
 System Support Addendum (SSA 34.19.00-x).

 Back-End Processors

 Processor and/or configurations as specified in the System Support Ad-
 dendum (SSA 34.19.00-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Front-End

 OpenVMS Operating System

 VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers License

 Back-End

 OpenVMS Operating System

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 34.19.00-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.



                                  6

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-GUTA9-J*

 Software Media and Documentation: QA-GUTAA-H5

 Software Documentation: QA-GUTAA-GZ

 Software Product Services: QT-GUTA9-L*

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The DECss7 licensing fee is calculated by using the "clusterwide" tiers
 algorithm and is based on the amount of "units" of license rating ac-
 cumulated by the Back-End Processors.

 The right to use DECss7 on the Front-End Processors is included with
 the DECss7 Back-End Processor License.

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility Manual of the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
 tem documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

                                  7

 



 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 Consulting services relating to this product, and services to provide
 implementation of particular customer-specific variants to the stan-
 dard product are available. A variety of service options are avail-
 able from Digital. For more information, contact your local Digital
 office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.


 

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECss7, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, Q-bus,
    TK, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are
    trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.


















                                  8
