 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  PATHWORKS for Macintosh[R], Version 1.1   SPD 31.53.03

 DESCRIPTION

 The PATHWORKS family of PC Integration products implements Digital Equip-
 ment Corporation's Personal Computing Systems Architecture (PCSA). PCSA
 is an extension of Digital Equipment Corporation's systems and net-
 working architecture that merges the VAX, PC, and Macintosh environ-
 ments.

 PCSA provides a framework for integrating personal computers into the
 organization's total information system so different types of users
 can share information, system resources, and network services across
 the entire organization.

 The PATHWORKS family of software products includes:

 o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh - Macintosh software that allows Macintosh
    clients to access file, print, mail, and database services on VMS
    or, in some cases, RISC/ULTRIX systems. This software also includes
    applications for terminal emulation, X display services, mail, database
    access, and DECnet. This product is described in this Software Prod-
    uct Description.

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) - Software that allows a VMS system
    to act as a file, print, mail, and database server to Macintosh clients.
    This software is required for Macintosh client access to these VAX-
    based services (SPD 35.09.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS - Software that allows a VMS system to act as a
    file, print, and disk server to MS-DOS[R] and OS/2[R] personal comput-
    ers (SPD 30.50.xx).

                               DIGITAL                  January 1992

                                                         AE-PCAED-TE

 

 o  PATHWORKS for OS/2 - Required software for the personal computer
    running the OS/2 Operating System to use the facilities provided
    by PATHWORKS for VMS and/or make the file and print facilities for
    an OS/2 system available to other personal computers (SPD 55.24.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS - Required software for the personal computer run-
    ning MS-DOS to use the facilities provided by PATHWORKS for VMS or
    PATHWORKS for OS/2 server software (SPD 55.07.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for ULTRIX - Software that allows an ULTRIX system to act
    as a file, print, and mail server to DOS and OS/2 personal comput-
    ers (SPD 32.44.xx).

 All required software for the Macintosh computer is contained in this
 media kit. Using PATHWORKS for Macintosh, Macintosh users can share
 applications, data, printers, and resources, access information from
 remote systems on the network, and apply that information in Macin-
 tosh applications.

 Features

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh provides the following features and capabil-
 ities:

 o  Mail for Macintosh client

 o  Data Access Language[TM] client

 o  MacX[TM] X Window System server

 o  MacTerminal[TM] (V3.0) terminal emulator

 o  AppleTalk[R]-LAT Gateway

 o  DECnet for Macintosh

 o  Macintosh Communications Toolbox[TM], including the LAT tool, the
    ADSP tool, the AppleTalk-DECnet tool, the AppleTalk-LAT tool, the
    DECnet tool, CTERM tool, MacTCP[TM] tool, Direct serial connection
    tool, Text transfer tool, Xmodem file transfer tool, and the mo-
    dem connection tool.

                                  2

 

 Client Software

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh provides the Macintosh user with the follow-
 ing Macintosh client software:

 o  Virtual Terminal Services - PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Ap-
    ple[R] Computer's MacTerminal emulator (V3.0), which uses the Mac-
    intosh Communications Toolbox to provide the emulation and connec-
    tivity functionality. MacTerminal provides VT320-style terminal em-
    ulation to a host computer on a DECnet network through the use of
    the VT320 tool in the communication toolbox. If VT320 features are
    not required, both a VT102 tool and a TTY tool are provided.

    MacTerminal, which supports multiple sessions, also allows high speed
    terminal emulation over Ethernet in a local area network through
    the use of the LAT tool, which implements Digital's Local Area Trans-
    port technology. For DECnet users needing terminal services over
    LocalTalk[R] or wide area terminal services over Ethernet, MacTer-
    minal supports the CTERM tool. For LocalTalk users needing termi-
    nal services, MacTerminal supports the AppleTalk-LAT tool.

    Other features of MacTerminal include scrollback cache, and cut,
    copy, and paste capabilities between terminal sessions or Macin-
    tosh applications

 o  X Window System Server - PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Apple Com-
    puter's MacX, which is a Macintosh application that implements an
    X Window System server using the industry-standard X Window Sys-
    tem, Version 11.4 (X11) protocol. A DECwindows application execut-
    ing on a remote VMS system with DECnet or AppleTalk or on a remote
    ULTRIX system with DECnet or TCP/IP may be displayed on and receive
    keyboard and mouse input from the Macintosh computer.

    A minimum of 1.5 megabytes of system memory must be free and ac-
    cessible to MacX after configuring the system. Depending on the num-
    ber of DECwindows applications being displayed, the memory require-
    ments of each application, and whether or not color is being used,
    more memory may be required on the Macintosh computer. Therefore,
    the user should test these types of configurations prior to pro-
    duction use.

                                  3

 

    MacX supports eight-bit color X Client applications and supplies
    a variety of fonts, including the special DECwindows fonts. Users
    can choose to run MacX as a full-screen DECwindows window or as part
    of the standard Macintosh desktop environment.

 o  Electronic Mail - PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Mail for Mac-
    intosh, an electronic mail application for the Macintosh computer
    that utilizes VMSmail. The Mail for Macintosh client is used in con-
    junction with the PCSA Mail Server that is part of PATHWORKS for
    VMS (Macintosh). Clients can send and receive electronic mail mes-
    sages with other VMSmail-supported users in the network. Mail for
    Macintosh does not support connections to the ULTRIX-based PCSA Mail
    Server.

    Mail for Macintosh has a standard Macintosh user interface that al-
    lows the user to select multiple messages for operations on groups
    of messages, and to cut and paste with other applications. Users
    can create and send memos, as well as read, reply, forward, print,
    copy, mark, and delete memos. Messages can be organized into fold-
    ers and can be sent using VMS distribution lists. Mail for Macin-
    tosh includes a built-in editor for creating memos, or the user can
    choose to send an ASCII file created with another editor. Users can
    also select preferences for functions such as copy on send, copy
    of reply, copy on forward, and include text on reply.

    Mail for Macintosh supports sending binary files. Users can send
    any Macintosh file by using the Send Disk File command in the Mail
    Menu. Files can be sent as MacBinary data to another Macintosh, or
    as plain binary data for interchange with other types of comput-
    ers.

 o  ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh - PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes the
    license for the ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh client software. ALL-IN-1
    MAIL offers enhanced mail services. See the SOFTWARE LICENSING sec-
    tion of this Software Product Description for more information on
    ALL-IN-1 MAIL.

 Network Connectivity


                                  4

 

 DECnet for Macintosh allows a Macintosh to participate as a DECnet Phase
 IV end node. This component of PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes the
 following facilities:

 o  Task-to-task communications

 o  File transfer through the NetCopy utility

 o  Network Management through the Network Control Program (NCP) util-
    ity

 o  File access listener

 DECnet for Macintosh also supports asynchronous
 DDCMP communications over a serial line. Refer to the Communications
 section of this Software Product Description.

 Task-to-task Communications

 Using PATHWORKS for Macintosh, a Macintosh user program can exchange
 messages with other network user programs via DECnet. The remote end
 user program can be a Phase III node in the same area or on any other
 Phase IV node in the network. The messages sent and received by the
 two user programs can be in any data format as long as the two part-
 ner programs agree on the message formats.

 Task-to-task program capabilities are accessed through the standard
 Macintosh communications toolbox subroutine calls.

 File Transfer

 Using the NetCopy utility, the user can transfer sequential ASCII and
 binary files between the Macintosh computer and another DECnet node.
 Files can be transferred in both directions between the locally sup-
 ported Macintosh file system and the file systems of other DECnet nodes.
 Wild cards can be used in source file specifications for both local
 and remote nodes, subject to support on the remote system.



                                  5

 

 ASCII text files transferred to the Macintosh system are stored as stan-
 dard text files. Such files are converted into the remote system's nor-
 mal format when transferred from the Macintosh node. When transfer-
 ring binary files to the Macintosh computer, file data is preserved
 but any record attribute data is lost; record attributes can be re-
 stored on such transfers from the Macintosh computer to a record file
 system through use of option settings.

 Additional features of the utility allow deletion (DELETE), remote spool-
 ing (PRINT), and display of files (TYPE), as well as batch submission
 (SUBMIT) and/or execution of command files, provided the remote node
 supports these functions. Directory (DIRECTORY) listings are also sup-
 ported.

 File Access Listener

 The file access listener (FAL) server task provides full access to Mac-
 intosh file resources from remote systems. User ID and password pro-
 tection can be used to control access to local files. FAL receives re-
 mote file access requests from the network and translates them into
 calls to the Macintosh file system. FAL then sends or receives the re-
 sulting file data back to the accessing program.

 Network Management

 The Network Control Program (NCP) and the DECnet Control Panel inter-
 face together perform four primary functions:

 o  Displaying statistical and error information

 o  Configuring the Macintosh computer as a DECnet node

 o  Controlling the node's network components

 o  Testing local network components

 The user can display the status of the local node's DECnet activity
 and statistics related to both the node and the communications line.
 Network parameters such as timer values and buffer sizes can be mod-
 ified.

                                  6

 

 Control functions include starting and stopping the line and links,
 deactivating the local node and controlling access to files from re-
 mote nodes (for file security). In order to test hardware components,
 loop test messages can be sent and received over the network between
 the Macintosh computer and another node.

 Because the Network Management Listener (NML) is included, remote DEC-
 net nodes can access certain dynamic DECnet parameters. This facil-
 itates management of DECnet networks containing Macintoshes.

 Macintosh Communications Toolbox

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Apple Computer's Macintosh Communi-
 cations Toolbox, which is system software that provides Macintosh ap-
 plications with standard access to communication services, data con-
 nection, terminal emulation, and file transfers. The Communications
 Toolbox tools that ship with PATHWORKS for Macintosh include the ADSP
 (AppleTalk Data Stream Protocol) tool for AppleTalk connections, the
 DECnet tool for DECnet connections, the AppleTalk-DECnet tool for con-
 nections through the AppleTalk-DECnet gateway, the AppleTalk-LAT tool
 for connections through the AppleTalk-LAT gateway, a serial tool for
 asynchronous connections, the LAT tool for high-speed Ethernet ter-
 minal connections to a host in a local area network, the CTERM tool
 for wide area terminal emulation, the VT320 and VT102 tools for ter-
 minal emulation, the MacTCP tool for MacX TCP/IP connections, the TTY
 tool, and the Apple Modem tool.

 AppleTalk-LAT Gateway

 The AppleTalk-LAT gateway allows Macintosh users on an AppleTalk IN-
 TERNET to connect to LAT terminal services provided by a VAX computer
 on Ethernet. Macintosh clients connected to LocalTalk or connected to
 Ethernet but separated by AppleTalk routers from the host use the AppleTalk-
 LAT gateway to establish connections. This Macintosh software gate-
 way can run concurrently with other applications, but Digital recom-
 mends that users dedicate a Macintosh computer to this gateway for op-
 timal performance.

 Database Access

                                  7

 

 The Data Access Language (DAL) client is included with PATHWORKS for
 Macintosh. The DAL is a database connectivity language based on the
 structured query language (SQL). The DAL client, used in conjunction
 with the DAL Server and the Rdb/VMS adapter, which are part of PATH-
 WORKS for VMS (Macintosh), provides access to Rdb/VMS databases. This
 allows Macintosh applications that support DAL to access information
 stored in a remote Rdb database. The Rdb/VMS software is available as
 a separate product and must be installed on a VAX computer to be used
 with the Rdb adapter. Refer to the VAX Rdb/VMS Software Product De-
 scription (SPD 25.59.xx) for more information about VAX Rdb/VMS soft-
 ware.

 The Data Access Language (DAL) client is not supported for access to
 an ULTRIX server.

 Installation and Configuration

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh, Version 1.1 installation must be performed
 after the PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh), Version 1.1 or Pacer for UL-
 TRIX, Version 2.5 server installation is performed.

 After the server is installed, the PATHWORKS for Macintosh client soft-
 ware distribution kit is installed using the standard server instal-
 lation procedure. The user then mounts the PATHWORKS volume and per-
 forms a typical Macintosh software installation using the Installer
 program.

 Digital recommends that the customer's first purchase of this soft-
 ware product include the PATHWORKS for Macintosh DECstart (QS-YPCAL-
 4R). This is an implementation and orientation service that provides
 support for first-time customers of the PATHWORKS for Macintosh prod-
 uct. The service assists in the installation of the PATHWORKS for Mac-
 intosh Software, the integration of Macintosh workstations into the
 Digital Network, and the setup of the user's environments.

 Communications




                                  8

 

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh supports direct connections to baseband Eth-
 ernet local area networks via Ethernet controllers. These interfaces,
 when used in conjunction with Digital's baseband Ethernet components,
 allow PATHWORKS for Macintosh software to utilize Ethernet as its datalink
 transmission medium.

 Broadband and Token Ring connections are not supported.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh also supports LocalTalk connections to Eth-
 ernet local area networks via LocalTalk to Ethernet routers. Refer to
 the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.53.03-x) for a list of supported
 routers.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh software is a DECnet Phase IV network prod-
 uct and is warranted for use only with supported Phase IV products sup-
 plied by Digital. DECnet Phase IV networks can contain a maximum of
 1,023 nodes per network area, and up to 63 areas per network. Phase
 III nodes participating in Phase III/IV networks are limited to the
 Phase III routing capability of 255 nodes. Phase II nodes are not sup-
 ported.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh supports the Digital Data Communications Mes-
 sage Protocol, Version 4.1 (DDCMP) for full-duplex transmission in point-
 to-point operation. An asynchronous connection to the network is ac-
 complished over a serial line, using the Macintosh asynchronous com-
 munications port as the physical link. The adjacent system must be a
 DECnet Phase IV, full-function (routing) node, supporting asynchronous
 DDCMP. DDCMP provides error detection/correction and physical link man-
 agement facilities. Neither half-duplex mode nor multi-point tribu-
 tary operation is supported. Because DECnet for Macintosh is nonrout-
 ing, only a single DECnet circuit can be selected at a time (either
 Ethernet, LocalTalk, or asynchronous).

 Restrictions and Limitations

 Because PATHWORKS for Macintosh uses AppleTalk Phase 2 protocols, ser-
 vices provided by a server will only be accessible to Macintosh com-
 puters that are connected to Phase 2 networks. Phase 1 networks can
 co-exist with Phase 2 provided there is a suitably placed Phase 1 to

                                  9

 

 Phase 2 transition router somewhere in the network. Use of Phase 1 pro-
 tocols anywhere in the network is not recommended due to the increased
 network load.

 The Local Area Transport (LAT) tool is not supported in LocalTalk net-
 works. Instead, use the CTERM tool with a router that routes DECnet,
 or the AppleTalk/LAT tool with the AppleTalk/LAT gateway.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh is not supported in configurations that in-
 clude passive or active AppleTalk hubs.

 A Macintosh with a LocalTalk-connected printer must function as an Ap-
 pleTalk router to print to the printer and access the Ethernet net-
 work.

 The MacTCP tool is supported only with MacX. Do not use this tool with
 other applications, especially MacTerminal. Use of an unconfigured MacTCP
 tool with MacTerminal can cause the Macintosh to crash.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes an "Examples" folder on the distri-
 bution media, which contains unsupported utilities. These utilities,
 which include Disinfectant, mBin, Backup-Mac.COM, and other utilities,
 are provided for the user's convenience and are not supported by PATH-
 WORKS for Macintosh.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 31.53.03-x).

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh has been tested on a number of supported con-
 figurations (refer to SSA 31.53.03-x). If a customer problem with PATH-
 WORKS for Macintosh is reproduced by the customer on one of these sup-
 ported configurations, Digital will work the problem to resolution on
 these supported configurations. If the customer problem cannot be re-
 produced by the customer on one of these supported configurations, it
 is the responsibility of the customer to resolve the issue.



                                 10

 

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  Macintosh Operating System

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software requires the PATHWORKS for VMS
 (Macintosh) server software for access to file, print, mail, and database
 services on the VAX computer. Refer to PATHWORKS for VMS (SPD 35.09.xx)
 for more details on this product.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software requires the Pacer for ULTRIX
 server software for access to file and print services of a RISC/ULTRIX
 computer.

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.53.03-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Client Software License: QL-YPH9W-AA
    (One required per Macintosh client.)
 Media and Documentation:
    QA-YPHAA-H* (VMS format)
    QA-YPHAB-H* (ULTRIX format)
    (Minimum of one required; includes one set of User Documentation
    and one set of Client Administration Documentation.)
 User and Client Administration Documentation:
    QA-YPHAA-GZ (VMS format)
    QA-YPHAB-GZ (ULTRIX format)
    (This documentation is optional.)
 User Documentation: QA-YPHAC-GZ (Optional.)
 Programmer's Documentation:
    QA-YPCAC-GZ (Optional.)
 Software Product Services:
    PATHWORKS Layered Product Support:
    QT-GZPA9-**
    Media and Documentation Distribution Service:
    QT-YPHAA-**



                                 11

 

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 Documentation

 Client Administration documentation includes the MacTCP Administra-
 tor's Guide, and Client Administrator's Guide

 User documentation includes the Network Services Guide, MacX User's
 Guide, MacTerminal User's Guide, Mail for Macintosh User's Guide, MacX
 User's Update, and MacTerminal User's Update.

 Programmers' documentation includes the Programmer's Guide, Program-
 mer's Reference, Data Access Language Programmer's Reference, Commu-
 nications Toolbox Reference, DECnet for Macintosh Programmer's Ref-
 erence, Programmer's Update, and DAL Programmer's Reference Update.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The PATHWORKS for Macintosh license gives the user the right to use
 the client software on a single Macintosh CPU and to use the PATHWORKS
 for VMS (Macintosh) server software on one or more VAX systems, or the
 Pacer for ULTRIX server software on one or more RISC/ULTRIX systems.

 A license must be obtained in advance for each Macintosh system on which
 the PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software is installed or from which
 the PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) or Pacer for ULTRIX services are ac-
 cessed.

 The PATHWORKS for Macintosh license also gives the user the right to
 use ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh client software (SPD 31.51.xx). The
 media and documentation for ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Macintosh are available
 separately.

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation on Digital's licensing terms and policies, please contact
 your local Digital office.


                                 12

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, please contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software is provided by Digital with the purchase
 of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Ad-
 dendum of this SPD.
 eightpointss

 [R]  MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [R]  OS/2 is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation.

 [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Incorpo-
    rated.

 [R]  Apple, AppleShare, AppleTalk, LaserWriter, LocalTalk, and Mac-
    intosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

 [TM]FastPath is a trademark of Shiva.

 [TM]Data Access Language, Macintosh Communications Toolbox, MacTCP,
    MacTerminal, and MacX are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, DEC, DECnet, DECstart, DECwin-
    dows, INTERNET, LAT, LN03R, MicroVAX, PATHWORKS, PCSA, Rdb/VMS,
    TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXstation, VMS, and VT320 are trademarks of
    Digital Equipment Corporation.









                                 13
