 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner, SPD
           36.04.00                Version 1.0

           DESCRIPTION

           DECps Family of Products

           DECperformance Solution (DECps) is a family of VMS layered
           products that reduces the time and effort required to man-
           age and monitor VAX system performance, as well as plan for
           future resource requirements. The DECperformance Solution
           products can be used with standalone VAX, VAXcluster and Lo-
           cal Area VAXcluster systems, as well as Mixed-interconnect
           VAXcluster systems. The DECperformance Solution family of
           software products includes:

           DECperformance Solution Data Collector

           DECps Data Collector gathers and manages VMS system data.
           It is described in SPD 36.02.xx. The components are:

           o  Data Collection and Storage

           o  Dump Report

           o  Data Archiving

           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor

           DECps Performance Advisor analyzes VMS data through the ap-
           plication of expert system technology, identifies specific
           conditions causing performance degradation, and presents de-
           tailed evidence to support its conclusions. Further, the Per-
           formance Advisor provides recommendations for attaining im-
           proved system performance. It is described in SPD 36.03.xx.
           The components are:

                                    DIGITAL            December 1991

                                                         AE-PH60A-TE

 



           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner,   SPD 36.04.00
           Version 1.0

           o  Performance Knowledge Base and Rules Compiler

           o  Performance Analysis

           o  Reporting and Graphing

           o  Callable Interface

           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner

           DECps Capacity Planner determines system performance lev-
           els for various workloads and configurations. It is described
           in this SPD. The components are:

           o  Workload modeling including:
              Validation
              Terminal Response
              Memory

           o  Predictive modeling including:
              "What if" analysis
              Saturation analysis

           DECperformance Solution Accounting Chargeback

           DECps Accounting Chargeback generates a report of charges
           based upon system resource utilization with user-specified
           resource pricing. It is described in SPD 36.60.xx.

           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner

           DECps Capacity Planner allows the system manager to define
           the system's total workload in terms of manageable units which
           DECps will then report against. Workloads and groups of work-
           loads (workload families) are used in model generation and
           can be reported against in DECps' Performance Evaluation Re-
           ports or Graphics. Workloads can be defined according to users,
           images, UICs , process name, account name and process mode.



                                       2

 



           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner,   SPD 36.04.00
           Version 1.0

           The DECps modeling component is used to predict the perfor-
           mance of standalone, CI-VAXcluster, Local Area VAXcluster,
           Mixed Interconnect VAXcluster and multiple CI-VAXcluster sys-
           tems, and to determine system performance levels for var-
           ious workloads and configurations.

           The modeling component includes a graphical modeling inter-
           face from which "what-if" analyses can be performed dynam-
           ically. A baseline model is automatically created based on
           information from the DECps database. This baseline model be-
           comes the starting point for making changes to the config-
           uration or workload and can be validated. Users can add, delete
           or change any hardware component or workload, and examine
           the impact on performance by viewing various performance met-
           rics displayed, such as: utilization, response times, through-
           put, queue length, service time, transaction per second, and
           I/Os per second. The various models can be saved for fur-
           ther evaluation. These "what-if" analyses form the founda-
           tion of capacity plans.

           The performance statistics are provided in either summary
           or detailed reports and include:

           o  Resource utilization

           o  Response time

           o  Throughput

           o  Queue link

           o  Service Time

           o  Performance information for each CPU, HSC, disk, chan-
              nel, adapter, and CI or Ethernet bus for both current and
              projected workloads or configurations

           o  System level parameters

           o  Saturation Analysis

                                       3

 



           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner,   SPD 36.04.00
           Version 1.0

           DECps Capacity Planner provides a prediction reporting ca-
           pability which automatically determines system performance
           based on an incremental workload of 25, 50, 75, and 100 per-
           cent or until a system component becomes saturated. This re-
           port also indicates the smallest workload at which a com-
           ponent will saturate.

           Saturation Analysis identifies bottlenecks before they oc-
           cur, thereby allowing the system manager to be proactive in
           eliminating bottlenecks and providing a consistent level of
           system performance to the user base.

           Features

           DECps provides the user with the capabilities to effectively
           manage the performance of an existing system and also to plan
           for future computer resources.

           o  A graphical modeling interface provides an easy-to-use
              tool for performing multiple "what-if" analyses.

           o  Work performed by systems can be grouped into meaning-
              ful categories; DECps will report resource utilization
              for each grouping.

           o  Performance modeling allows the user to understand the
              impact that changes in workload or configuration will have
              on overall system performance.

           o  Performance modeling is supported for standalone VAX sys-
              tems, CI-VAXcluster, Local Area VAXcluster, Mixed Inter-
              connect VAXcluster, and multiple CI-VAXcluster Systems.

           o  "What If" analysis provides performance characteristics
              of the system before actual changes are implemented.

           o  Saturation Analysis identifies the workload at which sys-
              tem components will saturate and performance bottlenecks
              will occur.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

                                       4

 



           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner,   SPD 36.04.00
           Version 1.0

           Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 36.04.00-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System

           DECperformance Solution Data Collector should be installed
           on at least the node where DECperformance Solution Capac-
           ity Planner is to be installed.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 36.04.00-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-GX3A*-**
           Software Media: QA-GX3A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-GX3AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-GX3A*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           The right to use DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner
           was included in VAX Performance Advisor (SPD 27.71.xx) and
           DEC Capacity Planner.

           When an Update License is required for DECps Capacity Plan-
           ner and the license that granted the right to use the prod-
           uct was the VAX Performance Advisor or the DEC Capacity Plan-
           ner, the customer should purchase the DECps Capacity Plan-
           ner Upgrade License.




                                       5

 



           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner,   SPD 36.04.00
           Version 1.0

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information on Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, VMS, VAX, VAXstation, MicroVAX,
                VAXserver are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corpo-
                ration.






                                       6
