 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC RALLY for VMS, Version 3.0          SPD 27.03.08

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC RALLY for VMS provides a powerful fourth-generation environment
 for developing interactive data-base applications. As an integrated
 package, RALLY provides tools to define Rdb/VMS databases, forms, re-
 ports, menus, and on-line help for the application user.

 Application developers can use RALLY's menu interface and extensive
 defaulting capabilities to create simple applications quickly. More
 sophisticated applications can be created in the RALLY editing envi-
 ronment. Once applications are created they can be:

 o  Run directly from within RALLY without compilation

 o  Installed in a VAX TEAMDATA folder*

 o  Accessed directly from an ALL-IN-1 menu*

 o  Run from other 3GL programs*

 o  Run from DCL*

 o  Run from a PC using DEC RALLY for MS-DOS®. Refer to the DEC RALLY
    for MS-DOS Software Product Description (SPD 37.62.xx).

 *  On systems where DEC RALLY for VMS Development Option (also known
    as the DEC RALLY Base Option) or DEC RALLY for VMS Run-Time Option
    are installed.

 Features

 DEC RALLY offers the application developer the following features and
 capabilities:

 Application Development Tools

                               DIGITAL                    March 1992

                                                         AE-GW56K-TE

 

 RALLY provides a fourth-generation environment for creating VAX Rdb/VMS
 and RMS applications. RALLY can also access data from any database through
 the Open Data Interface (ODI). RALLY provides tools to create databases,
 forms, reports, menus, and procedural routines. Generated applications
 can run in one or more user-controlled windows on the terminal screen.

 RALLY has a set of integrated Builder Tools that provide extensive de-
 faulting capabilities for quick prototyping of applications. Once the
 initial design is complete, RALLY offers dozens of powerful features
 for customizing and tailoring applications.

 Application data can come from multiple data sources, including lo-
 cal and remote Rdb/VMS databases, RMS files, TEAMDATA tables, and DBMS
 databases that have been defined as VAX DATATRIEVE domains, as well
 as ORACLE databases using RdbAccess for ORACLE.

 In addition, users can create RALLY forms and reports that access data
 from any other source. This is accomplished through use of the ODI.
 Users write data access routines in the VAX programming language of
 the user's choice, link them into a shareable image, and then use the
 ODI to integrate them into the application. At run-time, RALLY will
 call the user's code when it would normally call Rdb/VMS.

 The ODI can be used to call 3GL code that acts as a VAX ACMS agent,
 allowing the user's RALLY application to use database servers that are
 implemented using VAX ACMS. The result is a client/server application.
 VAX ACMS manages the client/server link. This enables users to off-
 load front-end processing efficiently onto cost-effective client VAX
 processors, or to move transactions onto central back-end processors.
 A complete example of a RALLY application that uses ACMS servers in
 this way is provided.

 "Simple Applications Simply" Capabilities

 Building RALLY applications is as easy as filling in a form. All parts
 of the application (menus, forms, reports, help, database) are cre-
 ated in the same manner, using the same interface. RALLY has a spe-
 cial screen editor to allow for designing and editing screens.


                                  2

 

 RALLY provides tools for less experienced application developers to
 get started designing and building applications. Business systems an-
 alysts can take advantage of the extensive defaulting capabilities of
 the product to design the databases, forms, reports and menus that make
 up, for example, a simple data entry application. As the user gains
 more experience, such simple applications can be expanded and modi-
 fied.

 RALLY includes a builder tool that creates a default application from
 an Rdb/VMS database. The application definer specifies the name of the
 database either by CDD/Repository pathname or by filename. RALLY builds
 a data source definition and a form/report for each relation/table in
 the database, and connects all the form/reports on a new main menu for
 the application.

 Database Creation/Maintenance Features

 RALLY provides a menu-driven tool for the creation and maintenance of
 simple Rdb/VMS databases in a style consistent with the other RALLY
 application definition system facilities. The database builder allows
 the definer to define and edit databases, relations/tables, fields/domains,
 and indexes. For more complex modifications to the database, the Rdb/VMS
 utilities SQL or RDO must be used outside of the RALLY environment.

 Unified Forms and Reports

 The centerpiece of RALLY is its integrated form/report processor. One
 RALLY subsystem supports both forms and reports. If the application
 developer so allows, anything that can be done with a form can also
 be done with a report, and vice versa. Depending on how the applica-
 tion definer specifies access to a form/report (input only, output only,
 query, update), users interact with an object as a form, a report, a
 template for queries, or as an editable report.

 RALLY automatically generates a form/report using the information from
 a database description. The definer can then use the form/report screen
 editor to customize the form/report. RALLY form/reports can include
 scrolled regions, field-level validation mechanisms, video highlight-
 ing, complex completion handlers, and can span multiple screens.

                                  3

 

 Besides allowing the user to create complex reports with totaling and
 subtotaling, multiple data source access, and flexible formatting, the
 RALLY form/report processor lets the user actually manipulate the un-
 derlying data dynamically through the screen form/report. This means
 that if the application definer so allows, a user can use a single form
 /report to browse through data, change values, add/delete records, and
 then either save the changes or quit from the report. Changes that af-
 fect computed fields are reflected instantly on the screen. RALLY also
 allows application developers to create control break reports.

 Transaction Management Options

 RALLY provides several options for controlling transactions in form
 /reports. The use of certain options improves the performance of ap-
 plications by reducing the length of Rdb transactions, reducing the
 number of database attaches, and reducing lock contention. A form/report
 may require only a single database attach if the following options are
 used:

 o  Defer updates until commit

 o  Rollback at end of table

 o  Force read to end of table

 Moreover, if these options are used in several form/reports chained
 together (for example, through local functions) then a single database
 attach can be used for the entire chain of form/reports.

 Two-Phase Commit

 RALLY form/reports can access data from two or more databases. RALLY
 presents the end user with a model where modifications to all groups
 are treated as a single transaction that can be committed or rolled
 back as a unit. RALLY provides a form/report option, "use two-phase
 commit," that uses DECdtm to ensure that transactions to several databases
 are, in effect, treated as one. This option takes effect only when us-
 ing Data Source Definitions based on Rdb/VMS.

 DECtrace/RdbExpert Support

                                  4

 

 RALLY instrumentation for DECtrace allows users to obtain a breakdown
 of database resources by form/report for their application. DECtrace
 support with RdbExpert also provides the user with the ability to op-
 timize the databases that are used by the RALLY application. This sup-
 port assumes an association between the RALLY form/report and the SQL
 statements. With RdbExpert, the user rates the importance/use of the
 SQL statements used by the application.

 Flow Control

 Application flow control is typically controlled by menus. RALLY pro-
 vides a menu definition tool that lets application definers create user
 menus in a variety of styles. Menus similar to VAX TEAMDATA strip menus
 are the default style for simple, defaulted applications from the Builder
 Tools. However, other menu formats such as vertical ALL-IN-1 styles
 can be created by the definer. RALLY supports menu navigation by num-
 ber, keyword, and/or cursor movement. Various mechanisms such as ac-
 tion sites, application commands, and tasks for controlling applica-
 tion flow are also supported.

 Integrated Dictionary and RMS Support

 RALLY supports integration with CDD/Repository in the following ar-
 eas:

 o  Storage in CDD/Repository of VAX Rdb/VMS metadata created or changed
    by RALLY

 o  Storage in CDD/Repository of RALLY Data Source Definition proxies
    and RALLY application proxies to support usage tracking

 o  Access to CDD/Repository field attributes - Used when defaulting
    data source definitions and forms/reports

 o  Access to RMS file and record definitions given the dictionary path-
    name

 o  Access to VAX DATATRIEVE domains given the dictionary pathname

 o  Access to record definitions for ODI routines

 Built-In Application Development Language (ADL)

                                  5

 

 RALLY includes an integrated Application Development Language for such
 things as special field validation operations, special-purpose arith-
 metic computations, and unusual database management interactions. ADL
 is intended to supplement an application composed primarily of other
 RALLY objects (for example, forms, reports, menus) with computations
 and flow-of-control.

 The Language-Sensitive Editor component of VAX Language-Sensitive Ed-
 itor/Source Code Analyzer (LSE/
 SCA) can optionally be used to edit ADL procedures. An LSE template
 for ADL is provided.

 Access to Third-Generation Language (3GL) Programs

 While most RALLY application requirements are satisfied using the tools
 provided with the product, application developers with special require-
 ments can create applications that directly call external routines (for
 example, a COBOL routine, VMS Run-Time Library routine, or a VMS Util-
 ity).

 Optional Integration with ALL-IN-1 and VAX TEAMDATA

 RALLY provides integration with ALL-IN-1 in the following areas:

 o  Function keys are (by default) similar to ALL-IN-1 and WPS-PLUS

 o  Support for ALL-IN-1 GOLD-Interrupt facility

 RALLY applications can be run from a TEAMDATA directory, an ALL-IN-1
 menu, or directly from DCL.

 Comprehensive On-line Help

 At every stage in the development process, the definer can get context-
 sensitive Help on particular areas being worked. RALLY continually makes
 the definer aware of appropriate values for fields, options, and vari-
 ables.

 RALLY allows definers to create context-sensitive interactive Help,
 legend, and error messages for an end-user application.

                                  6

 

 Other Features

 o  Date arithmetic

 o  Computed fields and aggregate functions (COUNT, SUM, MIN, MAX, AV-
    ERAGE)

 o  Password security for entire applications or selected application
    parts (for example, forms/reports or menus)

 o  Single-user or multi-user access to Rdb/VMS relations/tables

 o  Ability to save keystroke sequences in named macro files

 o  Virtual multi-tasking with windowing

 o  Default function key mappings similar to ALL-IN-1/WPS-PLUS; optional
    EDT function key mappings included; either may be customized by de-
    finer

 o  A simple and a full callable interface

 o  Application reporting utility to generate reports describing the
    entire application, single objects, all objects of a single type,
    and cross-references between the RALLY application and the database.

 o  Trace logging and ADL debugging options

 Run-Time Option

 The DEC RALLY Run-Time Option is available separately and is a sub-
 set of DEC RALLY Development Option. The DEC RALLY Run-Time Option sup-
 ports the execution of RALLY applications on a target machine that have
 been developed on a host machine using the DEC RALLY Development Op-
 tion. Application development is not supported by the DEC RALLY Run-
 Time Option.

 Internationalization

 RALLY can be tailored for various languages. Conditional form/report
 text can display different labels for different users. Standard er-
 ror messages are provided in French, Spanish, German, Danish, Swedish,

                                  7

 

 Turkish, and Hebrew. Individual users can use different languages on
 the same machine.

 Documentation

 DEC RALLY Development Option includes the following printed documen-
 tation:

 o  Introduction to DEC RALLY

 o  Developing DEC RALLY Applications

 o  Using DEC RALLY Applications

 o  Installing DEC RALLY on VMS

 o  Read Before Installing DEC RALLY on VMS

 DEC RALLY Run-Time Option includes the following printed documenta-
 tion:

 o  Installing DEC RALLY on VMS

 o  Using DEC RALLY Applications

 Both DEC RALLY Development Option and DEC RALLY Run-Time Option in-
 clude the following on-line documentation (.PS and .LINE):

 o  DEC RALLY Command Reference Manual

 Note: Customers may read and print, for their own use, machine-readable
 and printable software documentation files supplied with their soft-
 ware distribution kits, only in conjunction with their software prod-
 uct license(s). Use is limited to those users licensed under the prod-
 uct's license.

 RALLY includes the following Bookreader documentation:

 o  Introduction to DEC RALLY

 o  Developing DEC RALLY Applications

 o  Using DEC RALLY Applications

 o  Installing DEC RALLY on VMS

                                  8

 

 o  Read Before Installing DEC RALLY on VMS

 o  DEC RALLY Command Reference Manual

 RALLY also provides the source file for the Using DEC RALLY Applica-
 tions, to be customized by the definer (requires VAX DOCUMENT).

 Additionally, RALLY provides complete on-line Help.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 27.03.08-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 o  VMS Operating System

 For Workstations Running VWS:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  VMS Workstation Software

 For Workstations Running DECwindows:

 o  VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

 VAX Rdb/VMS (Interactive or Development System) is required for the
 DEC RALLY for VMS Development Option.

 VAX Rdb/VMS (Run-Time, Interactive, or Development) is required for
 the DEC RALLY for VMS Run-Time Option if the application uses VAX Rdb/VMS.

 VAX Rdb/MVS is NOT required, if using the DEC RALLY for VMS Run-Time
 Option with RMS files only.


                                  9

 

 Note: Although CDD/Repository (formerly CDD/Plus) is not required for
 Rdb/VMS applications, it is required for the DEC RALLY for VMS Devel-
 opment Option applications that use RMS files or the Open Data Inter-
 face, and for the DEC RALLY for VMS Run-Time Option applications which
 use RdbAccess for RMS files.

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.03.08-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 DEC RALLY for VMS Development Option (includes DEC RALLY for VMS Run-
 Time Option):

 Software Licenses: QL-A86A*-**
 Software Media: QA-A86A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-A86AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-A86A*-**

 DEC RALLY for VMS Run-Time Option:

 Software Licenses: QL-VF4A*-**
 Software Media: QA-VF4A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-VF4AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VF4A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

                                 10

 

 This layered product offers a Personal Use license. Each Personal Use
 license allows one identified individual to use the layered product.

 This layered product offers a Concurrent Use license. Each Concurrent
 Use license allows one individual at a time to use the layered prod-
 uct.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 eightpointss

 ®  MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment Corpora-
    tion.
 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, CI, DATATRIEVE, DBMS, DECterm,
    DECwindows, MicroVAX, RALLY, Rdb/VMS, TEAMDATA, TK50, VAX,
    VAX ACMS, VAX CDD/Plus, VAX DOCUMENT, VMS, VAXstation,
    VAXserver, VAXcluster, VT, VAXft, VT220, VT320, VT330, VT380
    and WPS-PLUS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.





                                 11
