
 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECvoiceBuilder Software for OpenVMS, Version 1.1 SPD
 40.62.01

 DESCRIPTION

 DECvoiceBuilder Software for OpenVMS provides an easy-to-use environ-
 ment for developing, maintaining, and monitoring telephone applica-
 tions using DECvoice hardware and software.

 It contains code to enable it to run on telephone systems outside of
 North America.

 DECvoiceBuilder Software for OpenVMS consists of four software com-
 ponents:

 o  DECvoiceBuilder Application Editor

 o  DECvoiceBuilder Recording Studio

 o  DECvoiceBuilder Administrator

 o  DECvoiceBuilder Run-Time Library

 Licenses for these four components are individually available and are
 also available in packages for two concurrent user environments:

 o  DECvoiceBuilder Production Environment:

       DECvoiceBuilder Application Editor
       DECvoiceBuilder Recording Studio
       DECvoiceBuilder Administrator
       DECvoiceBuilder Run-Time Library

 o  DECvoiceBuilder Run-Time Environment:

       DECvoiceBuilder Administrator
       DECvoiceBuilder Run-Time Library

                               DIGITAL                 November 1993

                                                         AE-PPJEB-TE

 

 Refer to the ORDERING INFORMATION section for detailed ordering in-
 formation.

 DECvoiceBuilder Application Editor

 DECvoiceBuilder Application Editor provides a Graphical User Inter-
 face (GUI) that is used to describe the application. This is achieved
 by drawing a diagram composed of objects. Each object represents one
 step in the application. Connections are made between the objects to
 indicate the flow of the application. Once the application is created,
 it can be saved for later modifications or turned into a running ap-
 plication through simple menu options.

 DECvoiceBuilder Application Editor objects provide the following func-
 tions.

 o  PHONE objects:

    -  Answer a telephone call

    -  Hang up a telephone call

    -  Transfer a call to another phone number

    -  Transfer a current call to another application

    -  Dial a specified phone number

    -  Place the current call on hold

    -  Retrieve a call that was put on hold

 o  MESSAGE objects:

    -  Play a message to a caller

    -  Record a message from a caller

 o  DTMF (Touch-Tone[TM]) objects:

    -  Send a sequence of DTMF tones to a caller or to a called num-
       ber

    -  Collect DTMF input from a caller and place it in a specified buffer

                                  2

 

    -  Provide a menu that collects a single DTMF key or voice-recognized
       digit from the caller and dispatches program execution to the
       network branch associated with that key

 o  LOOKUP objects:

    -  Retrieve data from a table

    -  Open a database

    -  Perform a predefined database operation

    -  Close a database

 o  PIN (Personal Identification Number) objects:

    -  Collect user identification information to check authorization

    -  Allow a user to update PIN information

 o  CABINET objects:

    -  Open a specified cabinet

    -  Open the specified folder in the currently opened cabinet

    -  Select the message to be played, filed, or deleted

    -  File a message to the specified cabinet and folder

    -  Play a message from the currently opened cabinet and folder

    -  Delete a message from the currently opened cabinet and folder

 o  CONFIRMATION objects:

    -  Collect a "yes" or "no" recognition response from the caller

 o  SPEAK objects:

    -  Cause the specified text to be spoken to the caller using syn-
       thesized speech

    -  Create a look-up for correct name or address pronunciation

 o  CONTROL objects:

    -  Mark the start of an application or function

                                  3

 

    -  Mark the end of an application or function

    -  Connect one branch of the application to another branch

    -  Perform a decision operation based on two specified values

    -  Create a new buffer containing a specified value or modify the
       value in a current buffer

    -  Increment the value in the specified buffer

    -  Specify the input style, DTMF, or voice recognition

    -  Specify that alternate prompts, based on language or skill set,
       are to be spoken to the caller

    -  Use the default error path

    -  Compare a buffer and up to 8 constant values

 o  PROGRAM objects:

    -  Provide the opportunity to execute a group of associated objects
       as a single routine

    -  Allow the execution of a specified user routine

    -  Allow the execution of a specified user command procedure

 o  FAX objects:

    -  Allow the sending of ASCII or DDIF formatted files to a FAX ma-
       chine (this feature requires the installation of DECfax Mail soft-
       ware and one of the supported FAX devices-see SPD 41.69.xx).

 DECvoiceBuilder Recording Studio

 The DECvoiceBuilder Recording Studio provides the ability to create
 and maintain the digitized voice recordings used as prompts for an ap-
 plication. Multiple variations of a prompt can be created for the same
 application, allowing an application to have multiple language sup-
 port or have prompts based on the caller's skill level (such as novice
 and expert prompts).

                                  4

 

 The following capabilities are part of the DECvoiceBuilder Recording
 Studio.

 o  Production of recording scripts

 o  Graphical display for editing recordings that allow:

    -  Cutting and pasting segments of recordings

    -  Trimming unwanted silence from recordings

 o  Support for compound prompts, where variable information is parsed
    as part of the output.

 DECvoiceBuilder Administrator

 DECvoiceBuilder Administrator provides for the monitoring and manag-
 ing of the applications and the configuration of the physical resources
 required for them to run. DECvoiceBuilder Administrator consists of
 two subcomponents, the Resource Manager and the Application Manager.

 The Resource Manager is used to deploy the application generated by
 the DECvoiceBuilder Application Editor. It builds a database that con-
 sists of information such as telephone resource configuration and voice
 resource availability required by an application. This information is
 specified by the user.

 The Application Manager runs the applications in a production envi-
 ronment. It initializes voice hardware, assigns physical voice resources
 to the application at run time, and starts and stops the voice appli-
 cations. The Application Manager also manages the reporting of sta-
 tus, error, and operator messages, and generates statistics and re-
 port information.

 DECvoiceBuilder Run-Time Library

 DECvoiceBuilder Run-Time Library component provides the routines the
 DECvoiceBuilder Application Editor utilizes when it generates an ap-
 plication.

                                  5

 

 The Run-Time Library component consists of two separate libraries, the
 application support library and the text debug library. The applica-
 tion support library contains the code that interfaces to the voice
 devices. The text debug library contains the code that runs the ap-
 plication to the terminal screen by displaying prompts and messages,
 and receiving keyboard input.

 SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

 The following source code modules are provided on magnetic distribu-
 tion media:

 o  Prototype demo-application modules that are intended to demonstrate
    and assist users in their implementations of various voice appli-
    cations. These modules are supplied without warranties.

 o  A set of prompt libraries for the above prototype demo-application
    modules. These libraries are intended to assist users in applica-
    tion development only.

 Digital provides these source code modules on an  ``as is'' basis with
 no support.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Systems and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System Sup-
 port Addendum (SSA 40.62.01-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 Prerequisite Layered Products

 DECvoice Software (SPD 29.97.xx)
 VMS DECwindows Motif[R] (SPD 36.09.xx)
 VAX C (SPD 25.38.xx)



                                  6

 

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 40.62.01-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses

 Application Editor: QL-MQ7A*-**
 Recording Studio: QL-MQAA*-**
 Administrator: QL-MQ9A*-**
 Run-Time Library: QL-MQ8A9-**
 Production Environment (Contains one license each for Application Ed-
 itor, Recording Studio, and Administrator; and eight licenses for Run-
 Time Library.):
    QP-LBWAA-01
 Run-Time Environment (Contains one license for Administrator and eight
 licenses for Run-Time Library.):
    QP-LBVAA-01

 Software Media and Documentation

 Application Editor and Recording Studio:
    QA-MQ7AA-H5
 Administrator and Run-Time: QA-MQ8AA-H5

 Software Documentation

 Application Editor and Recording Studio:
    QA-MQ7AA-GZ
 Administrator and Run-Time: QA-MQ8AA-GZ

 Software Product Services

 Application Editor: QT-MQ7A*-**
 Recording Studio: QT-MQAA*-**
 Administrator: QT-MQ9A*-**
 Run-Time Library: QT-MQ8A*-**


                                  7

 

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

 Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
 layered product.

 Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time to use
 the layered product.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
 ing System documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.




                                  8

 

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 © 1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

 [R] Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [TM]Touch-Tone is a trademark of American Telephone and Telegraph
    Co.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECvoice, DECvoiceBuilder, DECwin-
    dows, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, TK, VAX, VAX C, VAXcluster, VAXft,
    VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, and VXT2000 are trademarks of Digi-
    tal Equipment Corporation.






















                                  9
 
