 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ___________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B         SPD
          34.30.08                for OpenVMS VAX[R]
          Note: The Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D for OpenVMS VAX Soft-
          ware Product Description (SPD) is appended to the end of this SPD.

          DESCRIPTION

          Reliable Transaction Router (RTR) is fault tolerant transactional mes-
          saging middleware, used to implement large, distributed applications
          using client/server technology. This release of Reliable Transaction
          Router for OpenVMS VAX enables enterprises to deploy distributed Re-
          liable Transaction Router applications on OpenVMS VAX systems.

          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B for OpenVMS VAX is fully com-
          patible and interoperable with Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B
          for OpenVMS Alpha.

          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B for OpenVMS VAX is interop-
          erable with Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B for UNIX (Dig-
          ital UNIX, SUN Solaris and IBM AIX), with Reliable Transaction Router
          Version 3.1B for Windows NT[TM], and with Reliable Transaction Router
          Version 3.1B for Windows 3.1.

          Reliable Transaction Router configurations can include a combination
          of RTR Version 3.1B for OpenVMS and RTR Version 2.2D for OpenVMS, sub-
          ject to the restriction that within a given facility, all router and
          server nodes must be homogeneous with respect to Reliable Transaction
          Router software version (all Version 2.2D or all Version 3.1B).

          Reliable Transaction Router provides an API for development of dis-
          tributed applications using languages such as C and C++, with optional
          all-or-nothing transaction semantics as well as a message broadcast-
          ing capability. The API calls are also available from a command line
          interface. RTR for OpenVMS provides a reliable, transparent, dynamic

                                        DIGITAL                  October 1996

                                                                  AE-PHWLJ-TE

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]

          message routing system that includes both a transactional and non-transactional
          message control system. Transaction management provides for two-phase
          commit of distributed transactions.

          Reliable Transaction Router implements automatic software fault tol-
          erance and failure recovery in multinode environments by adapting to
          many kinds of hardware (CPU), communications, application software,
          or site failures. Automatic failover and recovery of service operates
          by exploiting redundant or under-utilized hardware and network links.
          If alternative hardware or network links are not available, Reliable
          Transaction Router automatically continues provision of service when
          the CPU or network link becomes available.

          Reliable Transaction Router applications are developed and deployed
          using a three-tier client/router/server software model. Client appli-
          cations call the Reliable Transaction Router "client" software tier,
          which passes messages to the "router" tier of the software. Messages
          and transactions are routed reliably and transparently, based on mes-
          sage content, to the appropriate process(es) in the "server" layer.
          Server applications typically execute transactions against a database
          and return results back to clients.

          A single physical node may run one, two, or three tiers of the client
          /router/server software model. Each of the three software tiers may
          consist of one or more nodes. The software model and its content-based
          routing present a "virtual", rather than physical, network to the ap-
          plication developer, providing a single view of a distributed client
          /server environment. This technique allows the application software
          to be independent of physical hardware (CPU) location, network nam-
          ing conventions, and communications protocol. This facilitates single-
          node development of applications, and transparent scaleability of ap-
          plications to complex network configurations.

          Reliable Transaction Router software fault tolerant features such as
          router failover and shadow-server processing provide continuous com-
          puting services with completion of in-progress transactions despite
          single or multiple points of failure in the distributed client/server
          environment. Call-out servers implement user authentication control,
          and concurrent servers provide dynamic message load balancing for high


                                           2

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]

          performance. The high performance transactional messaging is imple-
          mented as a full-duplex conversation with remote server procedures us-
          ing real-time flow control techniques. These features generally re-
          quire no special user application programming logic.

          The system management interface allows the creation, deletion, and mod-
          ification of virtual networks (facilities) within a network, and per-
          mits control of distributed Reliable Transaction Router processes from
          a single system within the distributed environment. The Reliable Trans-
          action Router system management interface is used to bind the phys-
          ical hardware (CPU and communications) to a virtual network namespace
          and is transparent to the applications software. A monitoring util-
          ity can be invoked to report application performance information on
          the local node.

          Reliable Transaction Router is independent of forms/window management
          systems and databases. Multiple databases and other resource managers
          (e.g.; flat-file systems) can be updated within the same distributed
          transaction.

          Reliable Transaction Router V3.1B for OpenVMS is intended for distributed
          applications that require continuous computing services and transac-
          tion integrity (e.g., trading/money dealing systems, transportation
          systems, telecommunications systems, and so on). Reliable Transaction
          Router can also be used for applications that require reliable mes-
          saging and fault tolerant application control over LANs and/or WANs.
          Reliable Transaction Router provides the enabling technology for ap-
          plications requiring fully distributed client/server models.

          License Types

          Reliable Transaction Router for OpenVMS is licensed in two ways. The
          Back End license, which provides full client/router/server function-
          ality, is required for nodes configured as routers or servers, and can
          also be used for nodes configured as clients. The Front End license
          provides client functionality only, plus a single-node development and
          testing environment for RTR applications..




                                           3

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]

          Back End Features

          o  Provides transparent, content-based transaction routing for client
             /server applications.

          o  Provides nontransaction based routing (broadcasts) for multiple sub-
             scription domains within a virtual network.

          o  Allows user-defined partitioned data models (content-based rout-
             ing) for improved performance of user applications.

          o  Acts as a layer between the application requesters and servers, thus
             decoupling the end-to-end relationship normally required by user
             application control. This provides the application developer with
             a "single" system view of the programming environment.

          o  Ensures atomicity of transactions (all or nothing) by using a two-
             phase commit protocol for transactional message delivery among one
             or more application servers.

          o  Offers at-most-once semantics for valid transactions. This includes
             specially flagged transaction replay to a surviving application server,
             or a later instantiation of that server on the same or a differ-
             ent machine on the virtual network.

          o  Supports multiple (concurrent) servers as well as multithreaded re-
             questers and servers.

          o  Provides disaster protection against site failure by mirroring trans-
             actions in shadow-server environments. Automatic resynchronization
             of shadow pairs after recovery is supported.

          o  Maintains performance scaling over a wide range of configurations
             allowing easy horizontal expansion of both hardware systems and ap-
             plication software.

          o  Enables automatic failover/failback of application servers on mul-
             tiple backend systems while remaining transparent to client appli-
             cations executing on remote system(s). Reliable Transaction Router
             for OpenVMS can maintain application operation in many instances
             of single or multiple failure modes in a widely distributed soft-
             ware/hardware configuration.

                                           4

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]

          o  Includes system management utilities for online control of virtual
             networks from any workstation or terminal with the appropriate priv-
             ileges. Monitoring of statistics, software and hardware states, and
             requesters/servers is provided on a local node basis.

          o  Uses TCP/IP and/or DECnet (DECnet Phase IV or DECnet/OSI) as the
             underlying transport(s) for the virtual network.

          o  Includes an ODBC server for use with RTR clients that use the ODBC
             interface.

          Front End Features

          o  Provides the necessary environment to run Reliable Transaction Router
             client applications under OpenVMS as part of a Reliable Transac-
             tion Router virtual network.

          o  Supports transactional and nontransactional (broadcast) messages.

          o  Supports automatic failover to another router in the event of a com-
             munication link or router failure.

          o  Supports Reliable Transaction Router system management operations.

          o  Uses TCP/IP and/or DECnet (DECnet Phase IV or DECnet/OSI) as the
             underlying transport(s) for the virtual network.

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          Any hardware that supports the underlying operating system. Refer to
          the configuration charts listed in the OpenVMS Operating System Soft-
          ware Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) Hardware Support Tables for
          further information.

          A TK50 tape drive or a CD-ROM is needed for software installation.

          Disk space required for      50,000 blocks (25 MB)
          installation:
          Disk space required for      36,000 blocks (18 MB)
          use (permanent):

                                           5

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]

          These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
          sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
          system environment, configuration, and software options.


          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

          o  Digital's OpenVMS VAX Operating System, Version 6.1, 6.2, 7.0 or
             7.1.

          OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

          o  Optional software commonly used in developing and deploying Reli-
             able Transaction Router applications includes programming languages
             such as C, C++, and database software offered by third-party ven-
             dors such as Oracle Corporation.

          o  DECnet for OpenVMS Alpha, or DECnet/OSI for OpenVMS Alpha. (For DEC-
             net/OSI, Version 6.3 ECO5 or higher is required.)

          o  Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS, or approved third-party TCP
             /IP network software. (For Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS, Ver-
             sion 4.0 or higher is required.)

          Refer to the product's Software Product Description for more infor-
          mation on optional software products and hardware requirements and sup-
          port.

          GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

          The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
          this product may be different from the requirements for the current
          version.








                                           6

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]

          DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

          The software and documentation are available on the Digital CD-ROM Soft-
          ware Library for OpenVMS, and on 9-track TK50 tape. The software doc-
          umentation is also available in hardcopy format.

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          Back End License:
          Software Licenses: QL-XNKA*-**

          Version 3 and Version 2 Media and Documentation kit: QA-XNKAA-H5. (This
          is a combined kit containing the media and documentation for both Ver-
          sion 3.1B and 2.2D for OpenVMS VAX.)

          Software Documentation: QA-XNKAA-GZ (Includes Version 3 and Version
          2 documentation.)

          Software Product Services: QT-XNKA*-**

          Front End License:

          Software Licenses: QL-XNLA*-**

          Version 3 and Version 2 Media and Documentation kit: QA-XNKAA-H5. (This
          is a combined kit containing the media and documentation for both Ver-
          sion 3.1B and 2.2D for OpenVMS VAX.)

          Software Documentation: QA-XNKAA-GZ

          Software Product Services: QT-XNKA*-**

          *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
             censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.







                                           7

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]

          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
          about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
          ital office.

          License Management Facility Support for OpenVMS:

          This software supports the OpenVMS Operating System License Manage-
          ment Facility.

          Back End License:

          License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

          Front End License:

          License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
          formation, contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
          chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
          Addendum of this SPD.

          The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
          local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

          [TM] AIX is a trademark of International Business Machines Corpo-
               ration.

          [R]  Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation.




                                           8

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1B              SPD 34.30.08
          for OpenVMS VAX[R]


          [R]  UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other
               countries, licensed exclusively through X/Open Company, Ltd.

          [R]  SUN and Solaris are registered trademarks of Sun Microsys-
               tems, Inc.

          [TM] Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, Alpha AXP, AXP, CI, DEC, DECADMIRE, DECnet,
               Digital, OpenVMS, Reliable Transaction Router, TK, ULTRIX,
               VAX, and VMScluster are trademarks of Digital Equipment Cor-
               poration.

          © 1996 Digital Equipment Corporation.
          All rights reserved.

























                                           9

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

          Software
          Product
          Description

          ___________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D         SPD
          34.30.07                for OpenVMS VAX

          DESCRIPTION

          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D for OpenVMS VAX can be li-
          censed for either full function operation or to work only as a client.
          It is a reliable, transparent message routing system that includes both
          a transactional and a nontransactional message control system. Reli-
          able Transaction Router implements automatic software fault tolerance
          and failure recovery on the OpenVMS operating system by adapting to
          hardware (CPU), communications, and application software failures. Re-
          liable Transaction Router provides users with the ability to easily
          partition multiple application programs over DECnet local area net-
          works (LANs) and wide area networks (WANs). Ease of development fea-
          tures include both a Requester (Client)/Server design environment, with
          optional all-or-nothing transaction semantics, as well as a message
          broadcasting capability. Reliable Transaction Router implements vir-
          tual, rather than physical networks, which provide the application de-
          veloper with a "single view" of a distributed client/server environ-
          ment. This technique allows the application software to be indepen-
          dent of physical hardware (CPU) location, network naming conventions,
          and communications protocol.

          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D for OpenVMS VAX is fully com-
          patible and interoperable with Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D
          for OpenVMS Alpha. Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D applica-
          tions developed on OpenVMS VAX can be recompiled for execution on Open-
          VMS Alpha. Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D applications can
          be deployed in networks and VMScluster systems containing a combina-
          tion of Alpha and VAX nodes. Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D
          for OpenVMS VAX is also backward compatible with previous Version 2.x



                                           10

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

          releases of Reliable Transaction Router for OpenVMS VAX (note: this
          does not apply to monitoring of remote nodes).

          Reliable Transaction Router is implemented by providing the program-
          mer with eight system services to develop distributed applications.
          This call interface conforms to the OpenVMS calling standard. The Reliable
          Transaction Router call interface functions are also made available
          at the Digital Command Language (DCL) level in both their synchronous
          and asynchronous forms.

          Reliable Transaction Router provides application software fault tol-
          erant features such as shadow-server processing, standby-server pro-
          cessing, and call-out servers to implement user authentication con-
          trol, as well as concurrent servers with dynamic message load balanc-
          ing for high performance. The high performance transactional messag-
          ing is implemented as a full-duplex, conversational remote procedure
          call (RPC) using real-time flow control techniques. These features gen-
          erally require no special user application programming logic.

          The System Management interface allows the dynamic creation, deletion,
          modification, and monitoring of multiple, independent virtual networks
          within a network. In addition, the monitoring utility can be invoked
          from any system, with suitable privileges, to gather and report dis-
          tributed application performance statistics. The Reliable Transaction
          Router System Management interface is used to bind the physical hard-
          ware (CPU and communications) to a virtual network namespace and is
          completely transparent to the application software. Several levels of
          physical and logical security can be controlled via the System Man-
          agement interface. Additional security is provided at runtime through
          the Reliable Transaction Router call interface.

          Reliable Transaction Router is both forms/window management systems
          and database independent. Application server features allow transaction-
          consistent access to Digital and non-Digital database products within
          the same networkwide distributed transaction.






                                           11

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

          Reliable Transaction Router is primarily intended for production sys-
          tems in large distributed environments that require frontend forms in-
          dependence and backend server database independence (e.g., trading/money
          dealing systems, telecommunications systems, and so forth). Reliable
          Transaction Router can also be used in general distributed systems that
          require reliable messaging and fault tolerant application control over
          LANs and/or WANs. Reliable Transaction Router provides the enabling
          technology for applications requiring fully distributed client/server
          models rather than a distributed database model.

          Full Function Features

          o  Provides transparent, content-based transaction routing for client
             /server applications in a distributed system.

          o  Provides nontransaction based routing (broadcasts) for up to 32 sub-
             scription domains within a virtual network. Subscription is based
             on alphanumeric names within a flexible addressing scheme that in-
             cludes wildcarding.

          o  Allows user-defined partitioned data models (content-based rout-
             ing) for improved performance of user applications in a LAN and/or
             WAN.

          o  Acts as a layer between the application requesters and servers thus
             decoupling the end-to-end relationship normally required by user
             application control. This provides the application developer with
             a "single" system view of the programming environment over multi-
             ple hardware systems located on a LAN and/or WAN.

          o  Ensures atomicity of transactions (all or nothing) by using a two-
             phase commit protocol to guarantee conversational message deliv-
             ery among one or more application servers.

          o  Offers at-most-once semantics for valid transactions. This includes
             specially flagged transaction replay to a surviving application server,
             or a later instantiation of that server on the same or a differ-
             ent machine on the virtual network. In addition, DECdtm support is
             provided for use with resource managers supported by DECdtm. When


                                           12

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

             the DECdtm option is invoked by the application program, the ap-
             plication programmer is not required to be aware of transaction re-
             plays, since Reliable Transaction Router coordinates this directly
             through DECdtm and the participating resource managers.

          o  Provides disaster protection and recovery (e.g., site failure) au-
             tomatically by mirroring transactions in shadow-server environments.

          o  Supports multiple (concurrent) servers as well as multithreaded re-
             questers and/or servers.

          o  Maintains near-linear performance scaling over a wide range of con-
             figurations allowing easy horizontal expansion of both hardware sys-
             tems and application software.

          o  Enables transparent and automatic failover/failback of application
             servers on multiple backend systems within a VAXcluster while re-
             maining transparent to application requesters executing on remote
             frontend system(s). Reliable Transaction Router can maintain ap-
             plication operation in many instances of single or multiple fail-
             ure modes in a widely distributed software/hardware configuration.

          o  Includes system management utilities for online monitoring and sys-
             tem control of virtual networks from any workstation or terminal
             with the appropriate privileges. This feature includes the moni-
             toring of statistics, software and hardware states, requesters/servers,
             and system manager control of distributed Reliable Transaction Router
             applications.

          o  Provides a synchronous as well as asynchronous DCL interface to all
             Reliable Transaction Router system services. This feature is in-
             tended to facilitate application prototyping and debugging.

          o  Uses DECnet as the underlying transport for the virtual network.

          o  Supports the connection of a number of remote client products with
             the remote client handler feature. These remote client products im-
             plement a subset of the Reliable Transaction Router architecture.
             Connection to these types of clients is available using DECnet and
             /or TCP/IP. The remote client handler acts as a gateway between the
             remote client application and the application server on the vir-
             tual network.

                                           13

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

          Client Features

          o  Provides the necessary environment to run Reliable Transaction Router
             client applications under OpenVMS as part of an Reliable Transac-
             tion Router virtual network.

          o  Supports full automatic failover to another router in the event of
             a communications link failure.

          o  Supports all OpenVMS calling methods (asynchronous and synchronous)
             and DCL interfaces.

          o  Supports transactional and nontransactional (broadcast) messages.

          o  Supports all Reliable Transaction Router system management oper-
             ations.

          o  Uses DECnet as the underlying transport for the virtual network.

          o  Supports the remote client handler for DECnet and TCP/IP connec-
             tions.

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          Processors Supported

          VAXft:      VAXft Model 110,
                      VAXft Model 310,
                      VAXft Model 410,
                      VAXft Model 610,
                      VAXft Model 612

          VAX:        VAX 4000 Model 100,
                      VAX 4000 Model 200,
                      VAX 4000 Model 300,
                      VAX 4000 Model 400,
                      VAX 4000 Model 500,
                      VAX 4000 Model 600



                                           14

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX


                      VAX 6000 Model 200 Series,
                      VAX 6000 Model 300 Series,
                      VAX 6000 Model 400 Series,
                      VAX 6000 Model 500 Series,
                      VAX 6000 Model 600 Series

                      VAX 7000 Model 600 Series

                      VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300,
                      VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX 8530,
                      VAX 8550, VAX 8600, VAX 8650,
                      VAX 8700, VAX 8800, VAX 8810,
                      VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840,
                      VAX 8974, VAX 8978

                      VAX 9000 Model 110,
                      VAX 9000 Model 210,
                      VAX 9000 Model 300 Series,
                      VAX 9000 Model 400 Series

                      VAX 10000 Model 600 Series

                      VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785

          MicroVAX:   MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000,
                      MicroVAX 3100 Model 10/10E,
                      MicroVAX 3100 Model 20/20E,
                      MicroVAX 3100 Model 30,
                      MicroVAX 3100 Model 40,
                      MicroVAX 3100 Model 80,
                      MicroVAX 3100, Model 90,
                      MicroVAX 3300, MicroVAX 3400,
                      MicroVAX 3500, MicroVAX 3600,
                      MicroVAX 3800, MicroVAX 3900






                                           15

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX


          VAXstation: VAXstation II, VAXstation 2000,
                      VAXstation 3100 Model 30,
                      VAXstation 3100 Model 38,
                      VAXstation 3100 Model 40,
                      VAXstation 3100 Model 48,
                      VAXstation 3100 Model 76,
                      VAXstation 3200, VAXstation 3500,
                      VAXstation 3520, VAXstation 3540

                      VAXstation 4000 Model 60,
                      VAXstation 4000 Model 90,
                      VAXstation 4000 VLC

          VAXserver:  VAXserver 3100, VAXserver 3300, VAXserver 3400,
                      VAXserver 3500, VAXserver 3600, VAXserver 3602,
                      VAXserver 3800, VAXserver 3900

                      VAXserver 4000 Model 200,
                      VAXserver 4000 Model 300,
                      VAXserver 4000 Model 500

                      VAXserver 6000 Model 210,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 220,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 310,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 320,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 410,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 420,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 510,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 520,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 610,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 620,
                      VAXserver 6000 Model 630

          Processors Not Supported

          MicroVAX I, VAXstation I, VAX-11/725,
          VAX-11/782, VAXstation 8000



                                           16

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

          Processor Restrictions

          A TK50 Tape Drive is required for standalone MicroVAX 2000 and VAXs-
          tation 2000 systems.

          Disk Space Requirements

          Disk space required for      20,000 blocks
          installation:
                                       (10 MB)

          Disk space required for      12,000 blocks
          use (permanent):
                                       (6 MB)

          These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
          sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
          system environment, configuration, and software options.

          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

          o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System V5.5-2-V6.2 (OpenVMS VAX V6.1 required
             as the minimum version for use of the DECdtm option).

          o  DECnet-VAX (version required by operating system) or DECnet/OSI for
             OpenVMS V6.1 or greater (note that Reliable Transaction Router sup-
             port of DECnet/OSI is provided through the use of synonyms, but does
             not include longname support).

          OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

          o  This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
             and licensed VAXcluster or VMScluster configuration.

          o  The following Remote Client products are supported by this prod-
             uct:

             -  Reliable Transaction Router Client Version 1.1 for DOS and Win-
                dows[TM]


                                           17

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

             -  Reliable Transaction Router for ULTRIX V1.0-1

          o  Nodes running Reliable Transaction Router V2.2D for OpenVMS VAX can
             exchange messages and interoperate with nodes running Reliable Trans-
             action Router V3.1 for Digital UNIX[R], which are configured within
             the same Reliable Transaction Router virtual network. Configura-
             tion guidelines and restrictions are provided with the Release Notes
             for Reliable Transaction Router Version 3.1 for Digital UNIX.

          o  Optional software commonly used in developing and deploying Reli-
             able Transaction Router applications includes programming languages
             such as C, and database software such as Rdb, DBMS, or other database
             software offered by third-party software vendors such as Oracle[R]
             Corporation.

          o  DECADMIRE for OpenVMS supports rapid application development of Re-
             liable Transaction Router applications.

          o  For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to the
             OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

          GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

          The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version
          of this product may be different from the requirements for the cur-
          rent version.

          DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

          9-track TK50 Streaming Tape

          This product is also available as part of the OpenVMS consolidated soft-
          ware distribution on CD-ROM.

          The software documentation for this product is also available as part
          of the OpenVMS Online Documentation Library on CD-ROM.





                                           18

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          Full Function:

          Software Licenses: QL-XNKA*-**
          Software Media: QA-XNKAA-**
          Software Documentation: QA-XNKAA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-XNKA*-**

          Client:

          Software Licenses: QL-XNLA*-**
          Software Media: QA-XNKAA-**
          Software Documentation: QA-XNKAA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-XNKA*-**

          *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
             censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
          about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
          ital office.

          License Management Facility Support

          This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
          ity.

          Full Function:

          License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
          Use basis.

          Client:

          License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
          Use basis.


                                           19

 



          Reliable Transaction Router Version 2.2D              SPD 34.30.07
          for OpenVMS VAX

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
          OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
          or the OpenVMS VAX operating system documentation.


          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
          formation, contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
          chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
          Addendum of this SPD.

          The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
          local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

          [R]  Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation.

          [R]  UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other
               countries, licensed exclusively through X/Open Company, Ltd.

          [TM] Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, Alpha AXP, AXP, CI, DEC, DECADMIRE, DECnet,
               Digital, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, Reliable Transaction Router, TK,
               ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and
               VMScluster are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

          © 1995 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.









                                           20
