DECimage Storage Manager for VMS, Version 1.0			SPD 31.22.00

DESCRIPTION

The DECimage Storage Manager, Version 1.0 is the storage component of the 
DECimage product set.  This component provides centralized storage and 
distributed access of image data.   The DECimage Storage Manager uses a 
client/server approach where the server software provides centralized storage 
capability and the client software provides distributed access to the image 
data.

The primary functions of the server include:

oo     Provide control of image access and client privileges on the server

oo     Providing control of storage resources

oo     Providing transparent access to the image data

oo     Providing shutdown and restart capabilities

The client software provides the following functionality:

oo     Session Services

      -	 establishes and terminates sessions with a server node

oo     Storage Set Services

      -	 controls the physical location and access to image objects

      -	 provides services to create new storage sets, attach to existing 
         storage sets, delete a storage set and list the available storage sets 
         on a server node

      -	 provides the ability to manipulate Access Control Lists

oo     Image Object Services

      -	 provides functions to create, retrieve, and delete image objects

      -	 provides functions to set and retrieve image attributes

oo     Migration Services

      -	 supports the movement of images between storage devices

DECimage Storage Manager is intended to be used with a database product. It 
provides a unique key for each image object stored.  This image key can be 
placed in a database to associate application information with the stored image 
data.  When an application wants to retrieve the image, it retrieves the image 
key from the database, then returns the image key to the client software.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Any valid VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 31.22.00-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

VMS Operating System
DECnet-VAX
VAX Rdb/VMS (Runtime Option)

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software License (Server) - QL-893A*-**
Software License (Client) - QL-YGDA*-**
Software Media and Documentation - QA-893AA-H*
Software Product Services (Server) - QT-893A*-**
Software Product services (Client) - QT-YGDA*-**

*     Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses,  
      services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital Equipment 
Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about 
Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Digital office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.  License 
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more information 
contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the purchase of 
a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of this 
SPD.

The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your local 
Digital office for most up-to-date information.

December 1989
AE-PAA9A-TE

(R) The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment 
Corporation.

(TM)   DECimage, VMS, MicroVAX, VAX, VAXstation and VAXserver are trademarks of 
Digital Equipment Corporation.

