 


                               DIGITAL

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:   BASEstar Open Server                   SPD 47.87.06
                  Version 3.1

 DESCRIPTION

 BASEstar Open is an industrial automation integration framework that
 facilitates the integration of manufacturing applications and plant
 equipment. Accelerated development of integrated manufacturing sys-
 tems is assured through an architecture that also encourages consis-
 tency of application development.

 BASEstar Open takes advantage of the client/server computing archi-
 tecture. BASEstar Open Servers provide the robust, high-availability
 environment required by mission-critical applications. BASEstar Open
 Clients, on the other hand, provide access to all BASEstar Open ser-
 vices and BASEstar Open-managed information from any network Node on
 which BASEstar Open Client is installed. Client and server communi-
 cations within BASEstar Open are provided through TCP/IP network com-
 munications.

 For a description of the BASEstar Open Client product, refer to SPD
 62.54.xx

 BASEstar Open software provides services that allow comprehensive sup-
 port for manufacturing application integration, device connection, and
 control of plant equipment. The software operates in a distributed pro-
 cessing environment and its application integration features include:

 o  Collection, management, and distribution of plant data

 o  Automatic notification of significant (and critical) plant events

 o  Exchange of packets of data via peer-to-peer communication

                                                          April 1997

                                                         AE-Q1QED-TE

 

 o  Facilities for allowing the synchronization and restarting of man-
    ufacturing applications

 In addition, BASEstar Open has the capability of allowing applications
 distributed across different network Nodes to use globally-defined in-
 formation (BASEstar Open objects).

 Device integration software provides services to access and control
 plant floor equipment using both proprietary and standard MMS commu-
 nication protocols. Specific communication services are provided through
 specific Device Access Software (DAS) modules. The DAS modules require
 separate licenses from BASEstar Open.

 Features

 Application Integration

 o  Data Management

 BASEstar Open Data Services provide a standard mechanism for defin-
 ing, organizing, and accessing data in a distributed manufacturing en-
 vironment from a variety of sources including plant devices and area,
 plant, and work cell applications.

 BASEstar Open defines discrete elements (Data_Points) to contain man-
 ufacturing information. Data_Point definitions can be of various types,
 ranging from scalar data elements to user-defined data structures. This
 provides the high flexibility of data definition and acquisition re-
 quired to define the many different types of data typically present
 in industrial plants.

 Since each Data_Point is referenced by name, applications become in-
 dependent of their data sources and consequently do not require al-
 teration as data sources change. In addition, simple Data_Points can
 have a predefined value specified at startup time. The value of a Data_
 Point may also be derived from the value of another Data_Point. The
 derived value can be obtained directly or modified by an arithmetic/logical
 expression. Data Services allow applications to define and manage Data_
 Points.

                                  2

 

 You can associate each Data_Point with one or more Triggers. A Trig-
 ger defines a relationship between a Data_Point, a Filter, and an Event.
 Each time the value of a triggered Data_Point changes, associated Fil-
 ter expressions are evaluated. Whenever the Boolean result of an eval-
 uated Filter expression is TRUE, BASEstar Open declares the associ-
 ated Event.

 Likewise, the Timer object allows you to apply a time-based condition
 to the execution of an action. You can define the time condition as
 an absolute date, a time interval, or a combination of the two. When
 the Timer expires, BASEstar Open sends a message to the associated ob-
 jects. You can associate Timers with Trigger objects.

 It is possible to store one or more versions of a Data_Point value.
 In addition to the value, each Data_Point version includes the time
 when the Data_Point value changed and its status at that time.

 BASEstar Open generates a new version each time the value of a Data_
 Point changes. You can therefore request the current version, contain-
 ing the current value, or alternatively, the value associated with any
 cached version.

 o  Event Services

 BASEstar Open Event Services allow you to subscribe to one or more Events.
 Events are occurrences that are of interest to an application program-
 like threshold exceeding, alarms, job completion, and so on. You can
 define the occurrence of such Events and specify the context infor-
 mation that you wish to pass. This context information can also in-
 clude data and their types.

 On declaration of an Event, Event Services create and deliver the no-
 tifications that the subscribers receive.

 o  Packet Services

 BASEstar Open Packet Services allow you to exchange Packets of infor-
 mation directly with other users. Two users can establish direct com-
 munication through a Port; one user connects to send a Packet, and the
 other user connects to receive it.

                                  3

 

 A Packet contains a description of information to be exchanged. Each
 Packet input and output parameter is described by a datatype.

 BASEstar Open delivers a Packet to a Port in a protocol-independent
 manner and also independent of the location of the users and Ports in-
 volved.

 o  Application Management Services (AMS)

 BASEstar Open Application Management Services provide functions for
 managing and coordinating manufacturing applications. These applica-
 tions may be standalone or distributed across the Nodes of a network.

 Application Management Services allow users to organize application
 activities into hierarchical structures that support the execution startup
 and shutdown of synchronized activities, based on user-defined poli-
 cies.

 It is possible to execute, suspend, resumed, and terminate an appli-
 cation Activity. BASEstar Open monitors the status of all Activities.
 If an Activity (or Node) fails, you can choose from several recovery
 policies. For instance, in case of Node failure, you can restart an
 application on an alternative Node.

 o  Application Development Support

 To assist in developing applications, especially when debugging or trou-
 bleshooting, BASEstar Open provides a Source Trace Tool. BASEstar Open
 uses this tool internally. It is also available to users for monitor-
 ing the execution flow of an application.

 You can enable or disable trace facilities dynamically by specifying
 different granularity levels; it is not necessray to stop and restart
 the tracing process. The output of the trace tool can be routed to sev-
 eral kinds of output devices-memory, files, terminals, and so on.

 Device Integration

 o  Device Management

                                  4

 

 BASEstar Open software enables applications to interact with plant de-
 vices without knowledge of physical device characteristics such as lo-
 cation, protocol, or device specific data formats. Physical devices
 are modeled in compliance with the MMS standard - Message Manufactur-
 ing Specification ISO 9506. Devices are accessed through specific De-
 vice Access software (DAS) which provides operations such as reading
 and writing of simple and structured data via specific device proto-
 cols.

 o  Device Access Software (DAS)

 Different manufacturing devices use different services and communi-
 cation protocols to connect to a computer system. These services and
 communication protocols are typically control vendor-proprietary.

 BASEstar Open DAS software provides proprietary communication spec-
 ifications to access device controllers that are available on the mar-
 ket from multiple control vendors.

 Device Access Software for many leading industrial control devices is
 available through DIGITAL.

 o  Data Collection

 BASEstar Open software collects data from plant devices on request from
 the host Node (solicited), at pre-defined intervals (polling), or when
 generated by a device (unsolicited).

 Polling is a means of collecting data by reading specified address reg-
 isters in the memory of a programmable device at pre-defined inter-
 vals. To perform this task, the application defines a set of Data_Points
 (a Polling_Set) from which data is to be collected.

 In addition, BASEstar Open can receive unsolicited data directly from
 plant equipment devices, thus eliminating the processing overhead as-
 sociated with continuous polling.

 o  BASEstar Classic Device Connectivity integration


                                  5

 

 BASEstar Open for OpenVMS includes a subset of BASEstar Classic to en-
 able the use of many of the DASes available through the BASEstar Clas-
 sic DCM connectivity. For specific information about the BASEstar Clas-
 sic DASes supported by specific versions of DCM and the OpenVMS op-
 erating system, consult the DIGITAL System Integration (SI) organi-
 zation.

 Configuration Management and BASEstar Open Objects

 System designers of manufacturing applications that use BASEstar Open
 model the plant by relating plant data, devices, significant occur-
 rences, etc. to BASEstar Open objects. This modelling process is called
 configuration and can be performed in several different ways, using
 either the Graphic Configuration utility, the Command Language Inter-
 face (CLI), or via user application program calls to BASEstar Open Con-
 figuration Services.

 o  Named Objects

 The BASEstar Open environment is a collection of BASEstar Open named
 objects representing plant devices and Data_Points-alarms, data sta-
 tus, production counts, and so on. Manufacturing applications can there-
 fore use meaningful functional names to access these resources, rather
 than in a system-dependent manner which would require, for instance,
 information on physical locations.

 BASEstar Open objects reside in Domains. Domains are hierarchically
 linked to form a BASEstar Open Realm. Several Realms can be active at
 the same time.

 o  Local and Remote Objects Access

 BASEstar Open objects can be directly accessed within a Realm by us-
 ing the object's full pathname. The full pathname includes the local
 name preceded by the relevant Domain names. Alternatively, the user
 can set the default Domain and access objects in that Domain using lo-
 cal names, and objects in lower Domains using partial pathnames.

 Logging

                                  6

 

 BASEstar Open logs error and diagnostic information, as well as sig-
 nificant events. The log files are effectively the "black box" of BASEs-
 tar Open. They provide the primary source of support for troubleshoot-
 ing activity if a problem occurs.

 BASEstar Open Interfaces

 BASEstar Open Server provides the following interfaces:

 o  Application Programming Interface (API)

 The BASEstar Open Server API allows users to develop customized C lan-
 guage application programs which can make full use of the BASEstar Open
 services.

 o  Command Line Interface (CLI)

 The BASEstar Open CLI is a Command Line Interface for configuring and
 managing BASEstar Open objects. BASEstar Open services are available
 via the CLI which is typically used for configuration and rapid pro-
 totyping.

 o  Graphic Configuration Utility (GCU)

 BASEstar Open offers a PC-based Graphic Configuration utility with an
 MS Windows "look and feel". It allows users to:

    o  Manage BASEstar Open objects using create, delete and modify com-
       mands

    o  Load existing configurations from CLI scripts and snapshots

    o  Save configurations in CLI scripts and snapshots

    o  Browse through BASEstar Open configurations.

 The Graphic Configuration utility is bundled with BASEstar Open Server
 kits on Windows NT systems. It is included with the BASEstar Open Client
 on Windows 95 and Windows NT systems.

                                  7

 

 BASEstar Open users on UNIX or OpenVMS platforms can take advantage
 of the Graphic Configuration utility via the PC-based BASEstar Open
 Client and GCU product. The PC-based Graphic Configuration utility re-
 places the Motif-based GCU previously available with BASEstar Open Ver-
 sion 2.0.

 o  DDE Connectivity DDE (Dynamic Data Exchange) is a protocol that al-
    lows PC-based applications to exchange data. It ensures compati-
    bility between the PC-based data representation (used on Windows
    NT, Windows 95 and MS Windows platforms) and the native BASEstar
    Open data representation. This capability augments significantly
    the scope of BASEstar Open, allowing you to integrate DDE-compliant
    software packages such as Microsoft Excel, InTouch from Wonderware,
    and DDE drivers.

 Program Development

 With the appropriate development license, users can develop BASEstar
 Open applications via the following:

 o  BASEstar Open API (see above)

 o  BASEstar Open CLI (see above)

 o  BASEstar Open's high level language, BASEstar CIMfast.

 BASEstar CIMfast is an application enabler that provides the follow-
 ing benefits to BASEstar Open application developers:

 o  Fully portable applications

 o  Reduced development time

 o  Reduced application complexity

 o  Enhanced software maintainability

 o  Rapid prototyping capability.

 BASEstar CIMfast allows even inexperienced BASEstar Open application
 developers to create BASEstar Open applications quickly.

                                  8

 

 BASEstar CIMfast provides a very high level event-driven language es-
 pecially suited for describing highly asynchronous BASEstar Open in-
 teraction. This language, called the CIMfast Event Language (CEL), has
 the following features:

 o  Based on an Event/Action paradigm

 o  Can be integrated with existing BASEstar application code

 o  Can be customized by adding user-developed callback functions

 o  Supports the use of the Language-Sensitive Editor (DEC/LSE) for menu-
    driven program creation (OpenVMS only)

 o  Support for DECmessageQ

 The BASEstar CIMfast Event Language allows the user to describe in very
 simple terms which BASEstar Open Events will trigger a reaction. Ex-
 ample Events include:

 o  Data changes representing the current state of the shop floor

 o  Receipt of a message from another BASEstar Open or DMQ application

 o  Expiry of a time interval.

 For each Event, the user can specify a sequence of actions to be taken
 when this Event occurs. Example actions include:

 o  Activation or disactivation of a manufacturing device

 o  A read or write operation from a manufacturing device's memory

 o  Transmission of a message to another BASEstar Open or DMQ appli-
    cation

 o  A call to a user-written high level language function

 The BASEstar CIMfast Event Language provides a wide range of Events
 and actions that support the typical interaction of an application with
 BASEstar Open.

 Development and Run-time Versions

                                  9

 

 Users who wish to develop BASEstar Open applications require the BASEs-
 tar Open development version. This allows you to compile and link C
 language programs containing BASEstar Open API calls with the BASEs-
 tar Open libraries. Users who already have available a compiled and
 linked BASEstar Open application only need a run-time version of BASEs-
 tar Open.

 BASEstar Open Functionality - Platform Differences

 In general, all BASEstar Open functionality is available across all
 the supported platforms. However, there may be specific differences
 for a given release depending on the platform on which the server is
 running. At the time of writing, the differences are as follows:

 o  Source Trace Manager-not available with BASEstar Open Server on Win-
    dows NT and HP-UX

 o  BASEstar CIMfast-not available with BASEstar Open Server on HP-UX

 o  Graphic Configuration utility-bundled with BASEstar Open Server on
    Windows NT only

 o  PODB support-not available with BASEstar Open Server on Windows NT
    and HP-UX

 For a detailed list of differences, refer to your platform-specific
 release notes.

 Documentation

 BASEstar Open Server is supported by the following documentation:

 o  Run-time documentation kit:

    -  BASEstar Open Introduction provides an overview of the services
       and concepts within BASEstar Open.

    -  BASEstar Open Reference Guide provides the definition and spec-
       ification of the object model within BASEstar Open.

    -  BASEstar Open Command Language Interface provides the specifi-
       cation of the command line interface to access BASEstar Open ser-
       vices.

                                 10

 

    -  BASEstar Open Messages provides the definition and the descrip-
       tion of BASEstar Open error messages and suggested solutions.

    -  DEComni API Guide to Using Omni Directory Services provides the
       specification for the Omni Directory Services.

 o  Development documentation kit:

    -  Run-time manuals

    -  BASEstar Open Application Programming Interface provides the spec-
       ification of the callable interface to access BASEstar Open in-
       terfaces.

    -  BASEstar CIMfast Programmer's Reference Guide

    -  BASEstar CIMfast User's Guide

    -  BASEstar CIMfast Guide to DECmessageQ Support

    -  BASEstar CIMfast Guide to SQL Support

 o  An installation and management guide specific to each operating sys-
    tem, for installing BASEstar Open Server on the selected operat-
    ing system. It provides instructions on how to install BASEstar Open
    and platform-specific user information.

 o  BASEstar Open Server Release Notes describes new features provided
    with BASEstar Open Server on OpenVMS, DIGITAL UNIX, HP-UX and Win-
    dows NT platforms, and details any functional and documentation er-
    rors.

 INSTALLATION

 Before attempting to install the software, the customer must have all
 the pre-requisite hardware and software installed. DIGITAL recommends
 that a customer's first purchase of this software include DIGITAL In-
 stallation Services.

 Connectivity to all other Nodes within the network is the responsi-
 bility of the customer.

                                 11

 

 SUPPORTED VERSIONS

 This SPD covers the following versions of the BASEstar Open Server prod-
 uct:

 o  BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX V3.1

 o  BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha V3.1

 o  BASEstar Open Server for DIGITAL UNIX V3.1

 o  BASEstar Open Server for Windows NT V3.1

 o  BASEstar Open Server for HP-UX V3.1

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors Supported

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX  Version 3.1:
 VAX processors supporting OpenVMS VAX V6.1 to V7.1

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha  Version 3.1:
 Alpha processors supporting OpenVMS Alpha V6.1 to V7.1

 BASEstar Open Server for DIGITAL UNIX Version 3.1:
 Alpha processors supporting DIGITAL UNIX V3.2C to V4.0

 BASEstar Open Server for Windows NT Version 3.1:
 Intel and Digital Alpha processors supporting Windows NT V3.51, V4.0

 BASEstar Open Server for HP-UX Version 3.1:
 HP9000 and series 700 and 800 processors supporting the HP-UX VB 10.01
 operating system

 DISK AND MEMORY SPACE REQUIREMENTS




                                 12

 

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX Version 3.1

 Minimum recommended memory:

 o  48 Mbytes

 Disk space required:

 o  30,000 blocks (for installation)

 o  28,100 blocks (for subsequent use)

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha Version 3.1

 Minimum recommended memory:

 o  96 Mbytes

 Disk space required:

 o  60,000 blocks (for installation)

 o  50,000 blocks (for subsequent use)

 BASEstar Open Server for DIGITAL UNIX Version 3.1

 Minimum recommended memory:

 o  96 Mbytes

 Disk space required:

 o  90 Mbytes (for installation and subsequent use)







                                 13

 

 BASEstar Open Server for HP-UX Version 3.1

 Minimum recommended memory:

 o  64 Mbytes

 Disk space required:

 o  50 Mbytes (for installation and subsequent use)

 BASEstar Open Server for Windows NT Version 3.1

 Minimum recommended memory:

 o  24 Mbytes

 Disk space required:

 o  Development:

    -  Intel: 21 Mbytes (for installation) and 20 Mbytes (for subse-
       quent use)

    -  Alpha: 24 Mbytes (for installation) and 23 Mbytes (for subse-
       quent use)

 o  Run-time:

    -  Intel: 17.5 Mbytes (for installation) and 16.5 Mbytes (for sub-
       sequent use)

    -  Alpha: 21.5 Mbytes (for installation) and 20.5 Mbytes (for sub-
       sequent use)

 Actual memory requirements depend on application characteristics like
 the number and size of Data_Points, the number and frequency of Events,
 device access frequency, etc.

 Disk space values do not include disk space required for using sup-
 ported relational databases.

                                 14

 

 The above values refer to the disk space required on the system disk.
 The sizes are approximate; actual sizes will vary depending on the user's
 system environment and use of BASEstar Open.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX Version 3.1

 o  OpenVMS VAX V6.1, V6.2, V7.1

 Layered Products

 o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS Version 3.1 to 4.1 (SPD 25.A4.xx)

 o  DEC RdB Version 5.1 or 6.0 for OpenVMS VAX is required for appli-
    cations which make use of the Permanent Object Database (PODB).

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha Version 3.1

 o  OpenVMS Alpha V6.1, V6.2, V7.1

 Layered Products

 o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS Version 3.1 to 4.1

 o  DEC RdB for OpenVMS Alpha V6.0 (optional)

 BASEstar Open Server for DIGITAL UNIX Version 3.1

 o  DIGITAL UNIX Operating System V3.2C-V4.0

 Layered Products

 o  ORACLE Version 7.2 is required for applications which make use of
    the Permanent Object Database (PODB).





                                 15

 

 BASEstar Open Server for Windows NT Version 3.1

 o  Windows NT Operating System V3.51, V4.0

 BASEstar Open Server for HP-UX Version 3.1

 o  HP-UX Operating System VB 10.01

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.


 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 This product is available on CD-ROM for DIGITAL UNIX, OpenVMS Alpha,
 OpenVMS VAX, Windows NT and HP-UX platforms. It is also available on
 TK50 streaming tape for OpenVMS VAX platforms.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX Consolidated Software Distribu-
 tion:

 Software Media: QA-5SRAC-H8

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX Development Option:

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X7A*-AA
 Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X7AA-3B
 Software Documentation: QA-0X9AA-GZ
 Software Media: QA-0X7AA-**
 Software Product Services: QT-0X7A*-**

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS VAX Run-time Option:



                                 16

 

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X6A*-AA
 Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X6AA-3B
 Software Documentation: QA-0X8AA-GZ
 Software Media: QA-0X6AA-**
 Software Product Services: QT-0X6A*-**

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha Consolidated Software Distri-
 bution:

 Software Media: QA-5SRAB-H8

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha Development Option:

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X9A*-AA
 Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X9AA-3B
 Software Documentation: QA-0X9AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-0X9A*-**

 BASEstar Open Server for OpenVMS Alpha Run-time Option:

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0X8A*-AA
 Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0X8AM-3B
 Software Documentation: QA-0X8AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-0X8A*-**

 BASEstar Open Server for DIGITAL UNIX Consolidated Software Distri-
 bution:

 Software Media: QA-5SRAA-H8

 BASEstar Open Server for DIGITAL UNIX Development Option:

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0XBA*-AA
 Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0XBAM-3B
 Software Documentation: QA-0XBAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-0XBA*-**

 BASEstar Open Server for DIGITAL UNIX Run-time Option:


                                 17

 

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-0XAA*-AA
 Software Licenses (concurrent use): QL-0XAAM-3B
 Software Documentation: QA-0XAAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-0XAA*-**

 BASEstar Open Server for HP-UX Development:

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-4SLA*-AA
 CDROM Media and Documentation kit: QL-4SLAA-H8

 BASEstar Open Server for HP-UX Run-time:

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QL-4SKA*-AA
 CDROM Media and Documentation kit: QL-4SKAA-H8

 BASEstar Open Server for Windows NT Development:

 Software Licenses (unlimited use): QM-2X2AA-AA
 Software Documentation: QA-2X2AA-GZ
 PC package (documentation, license):
 QB-2X2AA-SA
 Software Product Services: QT-2X2A*-**

 BASEstar Open Server for Windows NT Run-time:

 Software License (unlimited use): QM-2X0AA-AA
 Software Documentation: QA-2X0AA-GZ
 PC package (documentation, license):
 QB-2X0AA-SA
 Software Product Services: QT-2X0A*-**

 The above information is valid at the time of release. Please contact
 your local DIGITAL office for the most up-to-date information.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
 about DIGITAL licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIG-
 ITAL office. Users who intend to develop applications which make use

                                 18

 

 of the BASEstar Open services require a BASEstar Open Server devel-
 opment license.

 Users who intend to deploy already developed applications in a BASEs-
 tar Open run-time environment require a BASEstar Open Run-time License.

 Unlimited use licenses give users the right to manage an unlimited num-
 ber of Data_Points. Unlimited use licenses are based on the DIGITAL
 3-tier licensing policy.

 Concurrent licenses[1], on the other hand, give the user the right to
 manage predefined quantities of Data_Points. Each concurrent license
 allows up to 250 BASEstar Open Data_Points to be managed.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more in-
 formation, contact your local DIGITAL office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the DIGITAL Standard
 Terms and Conditions relating to DIGITAL SPDs.

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
 local DIGITAL office for the most up-to-date information.

 © 1997 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

 [TM]The DIGITAL logo, Alpha, AXP, BASEstar, Bookreader, DEC, DE-
    Comni, DECosap, DECstation, DECsystem, DECnet, DIGITAL, Mi-
    croVAX, TK, VAX, VAXstation, OpenVMS are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.

 [R] Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.

 ____________________

 Not   available on Windows NT and HP-UX

                                 19

 


 [R] Motif is a trademark of the Open Software Foundation, Inc.

 [R] MS-DOS, Microsoft and Windows 95 are trademarks of Microsoft
    Corporation.

 [TM]Windows NT is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [R] HP-UX is a trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.

 [R] UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other
    countries, licensed exclusively through X/Open Company Ltd.

 [R] ORACLE is a trademark of Oracle Corporation.


























                                 20
