 


                              DIGITAL

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  DECwindows Motif[R] Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS    SPD
42.19.03

This Software Product Description describes the following two prod-
ucts:

o  DECwindows Motif[R] Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX

o  DECwindows Motif[R] Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS
   Alpha

The Description section describes features common to both products.
Any differences in product features are explicitly indicated.

DESCRIPTION

The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user interface
to the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating systems. This interface
allows users to interact with OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha
using a point-and-click technique. DECwindows includes a set of 
integrated desktop applications that demonstrate the ease of use of this
user interface and provides OpenVMS users with a base set of desktop
tools.

DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha delivers the New
Desktop environment for OpenVMS Alpha systems, which is derived from the
CDE (Common Desktop Environment) technology. CDE provides and defines
a consistent user interface for end users and a consistent development
environment for application developers across multiple platforms.

                                                           May 1996

 

The graphical user interface that was provided in previous versions
of DECwindows Motif is still available and is referred to as the 
DECwindows desktop. The DECwindows desktop is the only desktop provided 
for OpenVMS VAX. On OpenVMS Alpha, the installation procedure gives users
the choice of installing one or both desktops and asks which desktop
should be started by default. If both desktops are installed, the user
can switch desktops by restarting DECwindows.

Both the New Desktop and the DECwindows desktop are based on OSF/Motif[R].
Motif is a graphical user interface that is widely acknowledged as the
industry standard.

The DECwindows desktop provides two window managers: the Motif Window
Manager and the XUI Window Manager. Users can switch easily between
the two window managers. The DECwindows desktop productivity applications
use the Motif toolkit, but they also work with the XUI Window Manager.

The DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 layered product provides both 
runtime and programming support for the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit (OSF/Motif
Release 1.2.5) and the X Consortium's specification for the X Window
System[TM], Version 11, Release 5 (X11 R5), and provides run-time 
support for the OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3 and XUI toolkits and X11 R4.

Programs developed for the OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2 and 1.2.3 toolkits
that were provided in previous versions of DECwindows Motif can
be run under the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit. This means that users can run
XUI and Motif applications, including native applications and, on 
OpenVMS Alpha systems, translated applications. (See the Translated
Image Environment section of this SPD for more information about 
running translated applications).

X Window System standards supported as part of DECwindows Motif 
include the X11 network protocol, a base set of workstation fonts, the
C language binding for the Xlib programming library, and the C 
language binding for the X Toolkit library.




                                 2

 

Support of the X11 network protocol in the client library and display
server components provides the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating
systems with the ability to interoperate with other X11-compliant
systems in a distributed fashion.

DECwindows supports the client/server distribution inherent in the X
Window System. This client/server model allows X Window System clients
to run on one node and display output to another node, using a trans-
port to communicate between the nodes. The DECwindows Motif Version
1.2-4 for OpenVMS product provides four transport interfaces: local
shared memory, DECnet, TCP/IP (using Digital's TCP/IP Services for 
OpenVMS product or third-party products such as MultiNet[R] and 
Wollongong), and LAT. Users can also provide their own transport
subsystems and transport interfaces.

To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows Motif based 
layered product or X application runs on or can communicate with 
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha systems, consult the 
application's Software Product Description.

THE NEW DESKTOP

Packaged with DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha is the
New Desktop environment, which is derived from CDE (Common Desktop
Environment) technology. CDE provides a complete desktop environment based
on the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit (OSF/Motif Release 1.2.5) and X11 R5.

The New Desktop focuses on the user interface and end-user aspects of
CDE technology. The New Desktop requires OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 or
higher.

The installation procedure asks users to select the preferred desktop.
This choice determines whether the DECwindows Motif login box or
the New Desktop login box appears at startup. After installation, the
user can switch desktops anytime.





                                 3

 

Existing OSF/Motif R1.2.3 applications do not need to be recompiled
or relinked to run in the CDE environment. In addition, it is possible
to achieve basic integration of existing applications into the CDE
without making changes to the application source code.

The following CDE components are included in this release of the New
Desktop:

o  Applications

   -  dtlogin: Login Manager, dtgreet

   -  dthello: Screen between Login Manager and Window Manager

   -  dtscreen: Screen saver displays

   -  dtpad: Editor

   -  dtclock: Clock

   -  dtsession: Session Manager

   -  dtstyle: Style Manager

   -  dtwm: Window Manager, Control Panel

   -  dtfile: File Manager, Application Manager

   -  dtcalc: Calculator

   -  dticon: Icon Editor

   -  dtcreate: Action database entry creation tool

   -  dthelpview: Help Viewer

   -  Security options: New Style Manager control for setting and
      reviewing authorized users allowed to display applications on the
      local workstation

   -  Keyboard Selection dialog box

   -  Input Methods Selection dialog box

   -  Save/restore support for DECwindows applications

                                 4

 

   -  dthelpgen: utility for creating a help volume for display from
      the Front Panel Help Viewer

   -  dthelptag: compiles HelpTag source files into a run-time help
      file

   -  dximageview

o  Libraries

   -  dthelp: Help utility functions

   -  dtsvc: Assorted utility routines

   -  dtwidget: CDE custom widgets

The following CDE components are replaced by existing DECwindows 
Motif applications for this release of the New Desktop:

o  dtmail - Replaced by DECwindows Mail

o  dtcm - Replaced by DECwindows Calendar

o  dtterm - Replaced by DECwindows DECterm

o  Print Manager - Replaced by DECwindows Print widget

The following CDE components are not included in this release of the
New Desktop:

o  Application Builder

o  ToolTalk- ICCCM transfer mechanisms are implemented to emulate 
   certain ToolTalk functions internally, but ToolTalk messaging services
   APIs are not available to develop against.

o  Windowing Korn shell

o  Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) support

                                 5

 

Basic Components

The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS user environment consists of four 
basic components:

o  Session Manager

   Session Manager provides the top-level user interface to a DECwindows
   workstation. From Session Manager, users can start applications,
   customize their session, and perform security management.
   Session Manager also lets users specify the language of the user
   interface for supported DECwindows applications if they have 
   ordered, installed, and are licensed to use the appropriate 
   DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS language variant kits.

   For more information about which DECwindows Motif desktop appli-
   cations have translated user interfaces, refer to the SPD for that
   language variant. The DECwindows Motif language variant SPDs also
   contain information on specific local hardware and software 
   support provided in the language variant kits.

o  Window Manager

   The Window Manager lets users control the size and placement of 
   windows. The OSF/Motif Window Manager is provided as the default 
   window manager; users can choose instead to work with the DECwindows
   XUI Window Manager. The window manager can be chosen by an individual
   user or by a system manager for an entire system.

o  FileView

   FileView, a graphical interface to the OpenVMS file system, allows
   users to navigate the file system and to perform operations on files.

o  DECterm

   The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users with a 
   traditional character-cell interface for existing OpenVMS features and
   applications. It is a VT320 terminal emulator. It supports ReGIS
   and sixel but is not fully VT340 compatible. Programs written for
   VT52-, VT100-, VT220-, or VT320-class terminals and using OpenVMS

                                 6

 

   terminal driver features operate without modification in this work-
   station window. DECterm also provides workstation-oriented features,
   such as mouse-based cursor positioning, variable screen sizes, and
   cutting and pasting of text between DECterm and other DECwindows
   applications. Many programs can also use these features without 
   modification.

Desktop Productivity Applications

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS provides a set of integrated desktop 
applications that employ a common look and feel to help users easily 
master their computing environment.

The following desktop applications are available with DECwindows
Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS:

o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that are 
   distributed and stored on line. Improved ability to print from Bookreader
   has been added in DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS.

o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator.

o  Calendar - A personal time management system.

o  Cardfiler - A desktop card index or flip file, similar to an 
   online address or phone book.

o  Clock - An analog and/or digital clock with an alarm.

o  CDA Viewer - A tool for reading documents containing compound text
   (including Display PostScript text), graphics, and image data on
   DECwindows workstations. Using CDA Viewer, DECwindows workstation
   users can view a processed Display PostScript file that looks the
   same as output from any of Digital's PostScript printers. You can
   view Display PostScript output with the CDA Viewer and DECwindows
   Mail.

o  Computer-based instruction - An online tutorial for novice Motif
   users; users can learn how to use the mouse and perform other 
   simple operations with Motif.

                                 7

 

o  DECsound - An easy-to-use application that lets you play recorded
   messages, record audio messages, mail recorded messages, and 
   include recorded audio messages in compound documents.

   Note that DECsound is available for use on these TURBOchannel 
   systems only:

   -  DEC 3000 Model 400 series

   -  DEC 3000 Model 500 series

   -  DEC 3000 Model 700 series

   -  DEC 3000 Model 900 series

   -  VAXstation 4000 Models VLC, 60, and 90

   Please also note that DECsound may not be supported in future 
   versions of OpenVMS and DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS.

o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the OpenVMS Mail facility.

o  Message window - A window that displays system messages, such as
   new mail notification or system manager messages.

o  Notepad - A simple text editor.

o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor.

o  Print Screen - A tool for capturing images on the screen. Images
   can be printed directly or saved to a file.

o  Puzzle - A game of numbered puzzle tiles.

The DECW$EXAMPLES directory in the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS 
product supplies several audio images (such as animal sounds, laughter,
and various alarm tones) that can be played back using DECsound on 
VAXstation 4000 series and DEC 3000 series workstations. The CDA Viewer
can be used to view documents that contain audio images. In addition,
DECwindows Mail can be configured to include the audio editor for 
sending and receiving voice mail messages. On OpenVMS VAX systems, ALL-IN-1
MAIL can be configured to include the audio editor for sending and 
receiving voice mail messages.

                                 8

 

Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 Browser

DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS includes Spyglass Enhanced
Mosaic Version 2.1, a state-of-the-art World Wide Web browser that 
replaces the NCSA Mosaic browser.

Mosaic is a World Wide Web browser that lets users navigate and 
access information on the Internet. With Mosaic, you can search, retrieve,
display, store, and forward data using the Internet. Mosaic functions
in conjunction with the World Wide Web environment, which is a 
collection of information servers.

Mosaic is installed as part of the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for
OpenVMS systems product installation. Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic 
Version 2.1 is a fully supported component and installs in SYS$SYSTEM.
Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 runs only on OpenVMS Version 6.1
and higher.

Together with the Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 browser, an NCSA
sample implementation of Mosaic is provided on the VAX VMSINSTAL kit.
It only installs on systems prior to Version 6.1. The NCSA Mosaic browser
is provided as sample, "as is" software to introduce the Internet and
help users get started using a World Wide Web viewer. Because the NCSA
Mosaic browser is only a sample implementation, it is placed with the
other sample software in the DECW$UTILS directory.

To access the Internet with Mosaic, you must install Digital TCP/IP
Services for OpenVMS. If Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS is not
installed, you can display the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Home Page,
but you cannot access topics on other Internet servers.

Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 provides:

o  Support for popular HTML extensions: tables, text and image 
   alignment, text wrap, colored text, backgrounds

o  Progressive display of inline JPEG and GIF files

o  Built-in JPEG and GIF external viewers

o  Support for client-side image maps

                                 9

 

o  Language negotiation

o  Localization for French and German

o  TCP connection:

   -  Default: single-connection, keep alive

   -  Optional multiple simultaneous connections

o  Autogeneration of HTTP prefix

o  Mail-to capabilities

o  Built-in payment systems

o  Hotlist

o  History list

o  Intuitive toolbar

o  Support for FTP and Gopher protocols

o  Multiple style sheets

o  Over 30 user-selectable preferences

Support for MIT Utility Programs

Several MIT utility programs, bitmaps, and the Miscellaneous Utilities
Library from the MIT X11 Release 4 and 5 distribution are included
in the DECW$UTILS directory of the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS layered
product. The sources and images for a subset of these MIT utilities
are included. The XPR (X Print) utility, which allows users to capture
and print the contents of windows, is provided with DECwindows
Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX. A complete
list of available MIT programs is included in the DECwindows Motif 
Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Release Notes.

                                10

 

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Help System

The DECwindows Motif help system uses the familiar Bookreader 
interface to display help and retrieve help information. This help system
includes a table of contents and cross-referencing through the use of
hotspots.

The DECwindows desktop applications use the DECwindows Motif help 
system. When invoking help, either from a help menu or from context-sensitive
help, Bookreader is started and a help topic is displayed.

Local Language Support

DECwindows Motif is available in many local languages. Please contact
your local Digital office for the latest information on availability
of options and supported multilingual configurations. For more details
on the language variants, refer to the specific language variant SPDs.
Refer also to the Ordering Information and Software Licensing sections
of this SPD. Please note that until language variants for DECwindows
Motif Version 1.2-4 become available, you should continue to use 
DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-3 if you require local language support.

Programming Support

The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS environment includes an extensive set
of programming libraries and tools for use by application developers.
The libraries are provided in the form of shareable images. While CDE
Motif 1.0 (OSF/Motif Release 1.2.5) programming support is provided,
OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3, Release 1.2.2, Release 1.2.3, and XUI 
programming support are not.

Three categories of libraries are provided:

o  Standard X Window System libraries, such as Xlib and the 
   Intrinsics (X Toolkit)

o  CDE Motif 1.0 Toolkit support for developing applications using the
   Motif user interface style


                                11

 

o  Digital added-value libraries that give users additional capabilities:

   -  Digital Extensions to OSF/Motif (DXm)

   -  CDA support

   -  Display PostScript support (XDPS)

   -  Porting tools for changing applications from the XUI interface
      to the OSF/Motif user interface

Components from each of these areas can be used in any combination to
address the needs of applications. These components can also use the
tools from a variety of programming languages.

Motif language bindings are provided for the following programming 
languages:

o  Digital Fortran for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

o  DEC Pascal for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

o  DEC C for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

In addition, C header files supplied by the OSF have been modified to
work with DEC C++. Pascal and Fortran bindings are included in the 
DECwindows Motif kit; OSF/Motif "strongly typed" language bindings for Ada
are available in the DEC Ada for OpenVMS (VAX and Alpha) layered product.

For additional programming support, the
DECW$EXAMPLES directory includes the following updated programming 
examples:

o  Motif widget set examples

o  X11 R4 and X11 R5 programming examples (Xlib examples)

o  Digital supplied examples

Programming Support Libraries

The following sections describe the programming support libraries.

                                12

 

X Window System (X) Programming Support

The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib) provided
by DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS supplies basic resource management 
(windows, color maps, input devices) and bitmap graphics services. It
defines a mapping of the X network protocol to a procedure library.

X Window System Intrinsics Support

The X Window System Intrinsics library support contains the X Consor-
tium Release 5 (R5) Intrinsics (X Toolkit). The X Toolkit provides 
low-level routines that allow the creation of user interface objects called
widgets.

OSF/Motif User Interface Programming Support

OSF/Motif is the user interface for Digital and third-party software
tailored for the DECwindows environment. It establishes the conven-
tions and styles for graphical applications. Applications use Motif
components to build user interfaces that look and feel alike.

The OSF/Motif Style Guide describes the principles, philosophy, and
components used to build consistent and well-integrated OSF/Motif 
applications. In addition, the DECwindows Companion to the OSF/Motif Style
Guide provides additional information concerning the style of OSF/Motif
user interfaces. This manual also provides guidelines concerning 
additional features that Digital provides in the DECwindows Motif for
OpenVMS offering, and includes a Digital preferred terminology list
for a number of supported languages for developers producing OSF/Motif
applications in these languages.

The OSF/Motif style concepts are implemented by the OSF/Motif Toolkit.
DECwindows Motif contains both the OSF/Motif and XUI Toolkits; appli-
cation run-time support is provided for CDE Motif 1.0 (OSF/Motif Re-
lease 1.2.5) and OSF/Motif Release 1.2.3, Release 1.2.2, and Release
1.1.3 Toolkits, as well as for the XUI Toolkit. The OSF/Motif toolkit
is based on the X Toolkit Intrinsics and contains three components:

o  OSF/Motif widgets and gadgets for implementing common user 
   interface objects, such as scroll bars, menus, and push buttons

                                13

 

o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions for 
   performing common tasks, such as cutting and pasting

o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface definition files
   and creating widgets and gadgets based on the contents of the 
   definition files

The OSF/Motif Toolkit is used in conjunction with the OSF/Motif User
Interface Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface definition files
produced by this compiler contain the data that describes the form of
DECwindows applications. These UIL files also allow OSF/Motif Toolkit
widget and gadget information, such as menu item labels, to be stored
separately from the toolkit and application run-time code. This 
capability allows application developers to prototype and easily
modify user interface designs, to separate form from function in 
applications, and to support translatable products that do not require 
recompilation of source files.

Digital Extensions to OSF/Motif

The DECwindows Motif product adds value to the standard OSF/Motif Toolkit
by including a library that contains a set of Digital developed 
widgets and run-time routines not available from OSF. The following
widgets provide a common DECwindows interface for some commonly used 
DECwindows functions:

o  A Color Mix widget that enables users to select and mix colors 
   using a variety of color models.

o  A Compound String Text widget that provides support for international
   character sets as well as left-to-right character sets.

o  A Help widget that allows applications to display appropriate Help
   text in a consistent manner. This widget is provided for backward
   compatibility with DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Version 1.0 and has
   been superseded by the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS help system 
   (hyperhelp).

o  A Print widget that allows applications to print files in a 
   consistent manner.

                                14

 

o  A Structured Visual Navigation (SVN) widget used by applications
   to display hierarchical information.

The run-time routines include:

o  Three DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS help system calls that enable
   users to display online help files using Bookreader.

o  DECimage run-time support for applications developed using DECimage
   Application Services. This support includes the Image Services
   Library, Image Display Services, and X Image Extensions.

Translated Image Environment for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha provides an array of services to
allow the operation of programs that have undergone binary translation
from DECwindows Motif Version 1.1 or XUI VAX images. These programs
can perform virtually all user-mode functions on DECwindows Motif
for OpenVMS Alpha systems. However, DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS
Alpha shareable images that are used with translated images are 
different from and incompatible with the shareable images used for
native images. Native and translated images that use DECwindows Motif
for OpenVMS Alpha software cannot be used together in a process.

Without requiring special source code, the Translated Image Environment
(TIE) automatically resolves differences between the VAX and Alpha
architectures, including floating-point registers, condition codes,
exception handling, ASTs, and others.

The Translated Image Environment included with DECwindows Motif for
OpenVMS Alpha is sufficient to run images that have been translated
elsewhere. The DECmigrate layered product can be used to translate 
images linked with the OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3 Toolkit (shipped with 
DEcwindows Motif Version 1.1 for OpenVMS VAX) for running on an OpenVMS 
Alpha system. For additional information about the precise characteristics
of programs suitable for binary translation, refer to the DECmigrate
Software Product Description (SPD 39.44.xx for VAX; SPD 39.45.xx
for Alpha).


                                15

 
XUI to Motif Porting Tools

Digital provides tools to aid programmers in porting applications to
Motif. These tools replace occurrences of XUI names in the input source
file with the correct Motif names.

CDA Programming Support

The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications can use to
create, read, and write files containing compound text, graphics, and
imaging data. These files provide a vehicle for recording this
information on disk, a medium for interchange of this data between 
applications, and an intermediate form from which high-resolution 
printable graphics data can be generated.

Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

The Display PostScript sYSTEM PROVIDED with DECwindows Motif for 
OpenVMS extends the native X graphical programming environment for 
Decwindows users displaying text or images on workstations that support the
XDPS extension.

X Windows Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the
basic X11 environment:

o  Most DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rotation 
   angle.

o  XDPS graphics are specified in a user-defined coordinate system 
   independent of monitor density.

o  Color or gray-scale rendition is automatically modified to take 
   advantage of the monitor type through direct display, color 
   dithering, or half toning.

o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and executed
   on command.

o  Sophisticated graphics primitives, such as precisely controlled Bezier
   curves, can be displayed.

o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily.

                                16

 

Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe Client Library. In 
addition, a converter called pswrap allows users to convert PostScript
code into C programs that can be called from other languages.

DECwindows X11 Display Server for OpenVMS Extension Support

The X11 server protocol is implemented on both the OpenVMS VAX and the
OpenVMS Alpha operating systems. As of OpenVMS VAX Version 6.0, the
DECwindows X11 display server on OpenVMS VAX supports the full X11 
protocol and contains significant portions of the Release 4 (R4) and 
Release 5 (R5) code base, plus some optional extensions. By contrast,
the DECwindows X11 display server for OpenVMS Alpha is a direct port
of the X Window System Version 11, Release 5 (X11 R5) display server,
plus some optional extensions.

The DECwindows X11 display server is an optional part of the OpenVMS
VAX and OpenVMS Alpha kits. The DECwindows X11 display server, including
device drivers and fonts, can be selected for installation during
the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha installation procedures.

The DECwindows X11 display server for OpenVMS supports the following
extensions. Client libraries for these extensions are included in the
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS 
Alpha layered products.

o  AccessX (OpenVMS Alpha only): "AccessX" as defined by Digital. 
   Provides keyboard enhancements to the X server for people with 
   movement impairments.

o  Display PostScript: "Adobe-DPS-Extension" as defined jointly by Adobe
   Systems Incorporated and Digital Equipment Corporation and registered
   with the X Consortium. Allows the display server to execute
   PostScript commands to support the XDPS programming environment.

o  MITmisc: "MIT-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" as defined by the X Consortium.
   Allows users to determine and to set the server bug compatibility
   mode.

o  MIT-SHM (OpenVMS Alpha only): "MIT-SHM" as defined by the X 
   Consortium. Provides the ability to share memory XImages between 
   the client and server.

                                17

 

o  Multibuffering: "Multi-Buffering" as defined by the X Consortium.
   Allows the display server to provide support for multiple-buffered
   images.

o  Shape (OpenVMS Alpha only): "SHAPE" as defined by the X Consortium.
   Allows programs to create windows with shapes other than the 
   standard rectangle.

o  X Imaging Extension: "XIE" as defined by Digital and registered with
   the X Consortium. Allows the display server to provide hardware or
   software support for imaging operations for ISL, the Image Services
   Library.

o  XTRAP: "DEC-XTRAP" as defined by Digital and registered with the
   X Consortium. Allows the display server to provide support for hands-
   off testing programs like DTM, the DEC/Test Manager.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

DECwindows Motif runs on any of the supported processors but requires
either a workstation, an MS-DOS[R] based PC, a Macintosh[R], or an X
terminal for display. These display devices must be running an X 
Window System, Version 11, Release 4 (R4) or Release 5 (R5) compliant
display server.

Supported VAX and Alpha Processors

DECwindows Motif supports all the AVX and Alpha processors listed in
the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating system Software Product
Descriptions (SPD 41.87.xx for Alpha; SPD 25.01.37 for VAX), with the
exception of those listed in the Unsupported Processors section.

Unsupported Processors

For performance reasons, DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS
VAX is not supported on the following processors:

   MicroVAX II
   MicroVAX 2000
   VAXstation II

                                18

 

   VAXstation 2000
   VAXstation 8000
   VAX-11/725
   VAX-11/730
   VAX-11/750
   VAX-11/780
   VAX-11/782
   VAX-11/785

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1)


For Alpha Systems

Disk space required          179,500 blocks
for DECwindows Motif
installation

Disk space required for      177,500 blocks
DECwindows Motif use
(permanent)

To support full OpenVMS Alpha and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS
Alpha, a system disk with at least 480 MB is recommended. However, a
subset of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Instal-
lation of DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha gives the
user the option to install any or all of the following components:

o  Run-time support (base kit) - 50,000 blocks. This section provides
   support for running DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha applications
   on Alpha compute servers and is a required part of the 
   installation.

o  New Desktop - 42,000 blocks. This is an optional component that 
   allows use of the New Desktop environment. It includes applications
   and application programming interfaces (APIs).




                                19

 

o  DECwindows desktop - 8,000 blocks. This component is also optional,
   but either the New Desktop or the DECwindows desktop should be 
   installed to create a usable system. The DECwindows desktop is the
   user interface that was included in previous versions of DECwindows
   Motif and includes the DECwindows Session Manager, FileView,
   and the Motif Window Manager.

o  Programming support - 13,000 blocks. This number includes support
   for the C, Pascal, and Fortran programming languages and for the
   New Desktop. If only a subset of languages is installed, the amount
   of disk space required will be less.

o  Programming examples - 13,000 blocks. This number includes example
   audio files, the DECwindows desktop, and the New Desktop. If
   only a subset of example files is installed, the amount of disk space
   required will be less.

o  Translated-image support - 33,500 blocks.

For VAX Systems

Disk space required          74,500 blocks
for DECwindows Motif
installation

Disk space required for      73,500 blocks
DECwindows Motif use
(permanent)

To support full OpenVMS VAX and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX,
a system disk with at least 280 MB is recommended. However, a subset
of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Installation of
DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX gives the user the 
option of installing any or all of the following components:

o  DECwindows Motif run-time support files (base kit) - 48,500 blocks.
   This section provides support for running DECwindows Motif for 
   OpenVMS VAX applications on VAX compute servers, and is a required part
   of the installation. It includes the DECwindows desktop applications
   and libraries.

                                20

 

o  Programming support - 12,000 blocks. This number includes support
   for the C, Pascal, and Fortran programming languages. If only a 
   subset of languages is installed, the amount of disk space required
   will be less.

o  Programming examples - 11,000 blocks. This number includes example
   audio files and the DECwindows desktop. If only a subset of example
   files is installed, the amount of disk space required will be less.

These block sizes refer to the disk space required on the system disk.
The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
system environment, configuration, and software options (for example,
DECwindows Motif programming examples).

Memory Requirements

For Alpha Systems

The minimum amount of memory required for a system user to install,
boot, and log in to an OpenVMS Alpha system running DECwindows Motif
for OpenVMS Alpha is 32 MB. Remote execution of applications requires
an additional system that runs the application while the application
is displayed on the local workstation.

The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS Alpha systems running 
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha depend on system configuration and
Window and applications usage.

Please note that memory requirements may change in future releases of
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha.









                                21

 

For VAX Systems

The minimum amount of memory required for a system user to install,
boot, and log in to an OpenVMS VAX system running DECwindows Motif for
OpenVMS VAX is 12 MB; 16 MB is highly recommended for more robust 
performance. Remote execution of applications requires an additional
system that runs the application while the application is displayed on
the local workstation.

The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS VAX systems running 
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX depend on system configuration and window
and applications usage.

Please note that memory requirements may change in future releases of
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX.

Support for Multiple-Screen Configurations

DECwindows Motif supports workstations with multiple screens. On 
OpenVMS Alpha, a multiple-screen configuration consists of a single 
workstation that supports multiple graphics options. A graphics option 
consists of a graphics controller and a monitor.

Please refer to the Getting Started With the New Desktop manual for
additional information about supported multiple-screen configurations.
See also the Systems and Options Catalog for more information.

Miscellaneous Supported Peripherals

VSXXX-AB      Tablet (replaces mouse)

VSXXX-JA      Audio headset

VSXXX-AA      Mouse

VSXXX-FA      Mouse




                                22

 

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This product is fully supported without restrictions when installed
on any valid and licensed VAXcluster* configuration.

*  VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the OpenVMS 
   Cluster Software Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include
   CI, Ethernet, and mixed-interconnect configurations.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS is supported on the 
following operating systems:

o  VMS Version 5.5-2; OpenVMS VAX Version 6.0, Version 6.1, Version
   6.2, and Version 7.0

o  OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 and Version 7.0

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

o  PATHWORKS for DOS and Windows

o  PATHWORKS for DOS (TCP/IP)

o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh

o  Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS VAX

o  Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS Alpha

o  Builder eXcessory (BX) for OpenVMS VAX

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements for the current
version.


                                23

 

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

CD-ROM (VAX and Alpha), TK50 streaming tape (VAX), 9-track 1600-bpi
magnetic tape (VAX)

ORDERING INFORMATION

For Alpha Systems

The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha product is available as a 
standdalone layered product on CD-ROM. In addition, users of multiple 
OpenVMS Alpha layered products can obtain DECwindows Motif binaries and
online documentation in Bookreader format as part of the Software 
Library for OpenVMS Alpha Layered Products CD-ROM.

Software Licenses:

   Personal Use: QL-XA1A*-2B
   Unlimited Use: QL-MV4A*-AA

Software Media:

   Motif Alpha media and Bookreader (user and programming) documentation:
   QA-MV4AB-H8

   CD-ROM Software Library for OpenVMS Alpha Layered Products (binaries
   and Bookreader documentation): QA-03XAA-H8

Documentation:

   Hardcopy Motif User Documentation (VAX and Alpha): QA-XA1AA-GZ

   Hardcopy Motif Programming Documentation (VAX and Alpha): QA-XA1AB-GZ

Software Product Services:

   DECwindows Motif Personal Use (VAX and Alpha): QT-XA1**-**

   DECwindows Motif Unlimited Use (Alpha only): QT-MV4**-**



                                24

 

For VAX Systems

The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX product is available as a 
standdalone layered product on CD-ROM. In addition, users of multiple 
OpenVMS VAX layered products can obtain DECwindows Motif binaries and 
online documentation in Bookreader format as part of the OpenVMS VAX 
Software Products Library (formerly ConDIST) on CD-ROM. The companion 
Online Documentation Library (fORMERLY ConOLD) CD-ROM contains most of
the DECwindows Motif documentation, which can be read using Bookreader.

Software Licenses: QL-XA1A*-**

Software Media:

   Motif binaries and Bookreader (user and programming) documentation
   (CD-ROM): QA-XA1AB-H8

   Motif binaries and hardcopy user documentation: QA-XA1AA-H* (TK50
   or magtape)

   OpenVMS VAX CONDIST (Layered Product binaries only): QA-VWJ8A-A8

Documentation:

   Hardcopy Motif User Documentation (VAX and Alpha): QA-XA1AA-GZ

   Hardcopy Motif Programming Documentation (VAX and Alpha): QA-XA1AB-GZ

   OpenVMS VAX CONOLD (Layered Product Bookreader documentation only):
   QA-VYR8A-G8

Software Product Services: QT-XA1A*-**

Documentation for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS (VAX and Alpha)

The DECwindows Motif user and programming documentation sets apply to
DECwindows Motif on both the VAX and Alpha operating systems. The 
hardcopy user documentation kit is included in the DECwindows Motif H-kits.
It can also be ordered separately. The hardcopy Programming documentation
kit must be ordered separately. If you are ordering DECwindows
Motif for OpenVMS on a CD, you will receive both the user documentation
and most of the programming documentation in Bookreader format.

                                25

 

Because not all books in the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Programming
documentation kit are available in Bookreader format, you must order
the following hardcopy manuals to complete the DECwindows Motif for
OpenVMS Programming documentation offering:

o  X Window System Toolkit: AA-PHF4A-TE

o  X and Motif Quick Reference Guide: AA-PHQ1B-TE

o  X Window System: AA-PHF3B-TE

o  OSF/Motif Programmer's Reference: AA-Q3E5A-TE

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Quick Reference Card: AV-PGZ4B-TE

CDE Documentation

The following Common Desktop Environment (CDE) manuals are provided
in support of the New Desktop. These manuals are included in the 
DECwindows Motif H-kit CD-ROM in HTML format and can be read using the
Enhanced Mosaic browser provided with DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4.
For more information about the location of the manuals on the CD-ROM,
see the Guide to the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS CD-ROM.

The CDE manuals are also separately orderable from Digital in 
hardcopy format. Please note that the order numbers in this list apply to
the hardcopy manuals only.

o  Common Desktop Environment: User's Guide: AA-QTLNA-TE

o  Common Desktop Environment: Advanced User's and System Administrator's
   Guide: AA-QTLQA-TE

o  Common Desktop Environment: Help System Author's and Programmer's
   Guide: AA-QTLYA-TE

o  Common Desktop Environment: Programmer's Overview: AA-QTLWA-TE

o  Common Desktop Environment: Programmer's Guide: AA-QTLXA-TE

o  Common Desktop Environment: Style Guide and Certification 
   Checklist: AA-QTM3A-TE

                                26

 

o  Common Desktop Environment: Internationalization Programmer's Guide:
   AA-QTM2A-TE

o  Common Desktop Environment: Product Glossary: AA-QTM4A-TE

Please note that not all the information in the CDE documentation and
reference pages applies to the New Desktop. Please refer to the 
Getting Started With the New Desktop manual for an accurate description
of the New Desktop.

This documentation will be distributed in future releases of the
Online Documentation Library and is currently accessible on the World
Wide Web at the the following address:

   http://www.openvms.digital.com/
   openvms/doc-sets/index.html

DECwindows Motif Language Variants

Each language variant kit runs on both VAX or Alpha systems.

Personal Use Software Licenses: QL-XDD**-2B

Unlimited Use Software Licenses (DECwindows Motif OpenVMS Alpha): QL-08U**-**

Unlimited Use Software Licenses (DECwindows Motif OpenVMS VAX): QL-XDD**-**

Software Media and Documentation: QA-XDD*A-H8

Software Documentation: QA-XDD*A-GZ

SUSL Subscription Service (Alpha): QT-08U**-**
SUSL Subscription Service (VAX): QT-XDD**-**

Media and Documentation Update Service (MDDS):
   QT-XDD**-**

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
   censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

                                27

 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local 
Digital office.

Digital provides a DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS license Product 
Authorization Key (PAK) with the purchase of a VAX or Alpha workstation.

Media and online documentation kits are not provided with Factory 
Installed Software (FIS) systems.

Licensing of Language Variants

The language variants of DECwindows are available as options to the
DECwindows Motif product. Language variants are supported only when
the version number of the language variant matches the version 
number of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS.

Some restrictions apply on language combinations. Refer to the 
relevant language variant SPD for details on supported language
combinnations in each country.

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS language variants are generally supported
only in countries where the language is an official language. However,
for some countries this may vary. Consult the relevant language 
variant SPD or your local sales office to check for the availability of
additional language support in your country or location.

License Management Facility Support

DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS supports the OpenVMS License Management
Facility. License units for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS are allocated
on an Unlimited System Use and Personal Use basis. Each Personal Use
license allows one identified individual to use the layered product.





                                28

 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha operating system Software Product
Descriptions (SPD 41.87.xx for Alpha; SPD 25.01.37 for VAX) or the 
OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating system documentation.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the 
purchase of a license for the product.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more 
information, contact your local Digital office.

©1996 Digital Equipment Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.

[R]   Adobe, POSTSCRIPT and Display POSTSCRIPT are registered
      trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated. Macintosh is a
      registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Motif, OSF,
      and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks of the Open 
      Software Foundation, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of
      Microsoft Corporation. MultiNet is a registered trademark of
      TGV, Inc.

[TM]  X Window System is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute
      of Technology. Open Software Foundation is a trademark
      of Open Software Foundation, Inc.

[TM]  Mosaic and NCSA Mosaic are trademarks of the University of
      Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.








                                29

 


[TM]  Bookreader, CDA, CI, DEC, DEC Ada, Digital Fortran, DECimage,
      DECmigrate, DECnet, DECterm, DECwindows, LAT, MicroVAX,
      MicroVAX II, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, POLYCENTER, ReGIS, 
      TURBOchannel, VAX, VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAXstation, VMS,
      VMScluster, VT, VT52, VT100, VT220, VT320, XUI, and the 
      Digital logo are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

APPENDIX A - THIRD PARTY LICENSING

Open Software Foundation, Inc., License Terms and Agreement

Digital Equipment Corporation certifies that DECwindows Motif Version
1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS
Alpha is CDE Motif 1.0 (OSF/Motif Release 1.2.5) validated as tested
with the OSF/Motif Validation Test Suite Release 1.1 with no waivers.
























                                30
