LAN Traffic Monitor for VMS, Version 1.2			SPD 27.80.02

DESCRIPTION

The LAN Traffic Monitor for VMS (LTM) is the software portion of a fully 
distributed monitor that can support the capture and presentation of 
traffic data from an extended Ethernet.  A LAN Bridge 100 or LAN Bridge 150 
(Local Area Network) downline loaded with unique monitoring software is 
attached to the Ethernet cable, and transmits information to a VMS layered 
application software program located on any VAX in the extended LAN. 
Multiple users, from different nodes on the extended Ethernet, can access 
the traffic data. 

LAN Traffic Monitor for VMS also works with Chipcom's (TM) Broadband Bridges 
called Ethermodem (TM) III Bridges.

LAN Bridge hardware can run either as a LAN Traffic Monitor or as a LAN 
Bridge, i.e., the primary building of the ``Extended LAN'' architecture.  
An Extended LAN is a collection of LANs that are interconnected and 
logically appear as one large Local Area Network.

With the LAN Bridge designed to work at full Ethernet speed, the LAN 
Traffic Monitor can provide real-time data on Ethernet LAN throughput and 
utilization, allowing a customer to actively monitor their Ethernet usage. 
The ability to collect data on any protocol type (i.e. LAT, 802.3, DECnet, 
TCP/IP, etc.) on the Ethernet is provided. All 802.3 packets are grouped as 
a single protocol type.

LAN Traffic Monitor for VMS contains the LTM Listener software (which 
counts and classifies Ethernet traffic using a LAN Bridge as a monitoring 
device) and the LTM User Interface (which collects and displays data 
received from the LTM Listener).

The LAN Traffic Monitor for VMS software license includes both the Host and 
Listener software licenses.  Listener software is executed on any LAN 
Bridge to which it can be downline loaded.  Note that when a bridge is used 
as a monitoring device, it does not function as a bridge.  Users can 
remotely switch a bridge between monitoring and standard bridge modes using 
Digital Equipment Corporation's Remote Bridge Management Software (RBMS) 
product.

Note:    DECnet-VAX is required on the downline load host.

The LTM Listener periodically reports traffic statistics to the LTM User 
Interface located on a VAX host.  The LTM User Interface receives 
unsolicited Ethernet datagrams generated by the LTM Listener.  Through the 
menu structure, the user can also ask the LTM Listener for additional data 
not found in the unsolicited messages. 

Multiple Listeners can be distributed throughout the network, monitoring 
the particular Ethernet segment to which they are connected.  There can 
also be multiple User Interfaces throughout the extended LAN, gathering the 
Data as it is transmitted. For potential configuration restrictions, refer 
to GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS  section of the System Support Addendum (SSA 
27.80.02-x).

The LTM User Interface performs the necessary data reduction and presents 
the statistics in logical groupings.  Summary displays which are presented 
in tabular format include: 

oo   Network Traffic

oo   Top Ten Talkers (Current, Long Term)

oo   Throughput and Utilization (Current, Long Term, Peak)

oo   List of Nodes

oo   List of Multicast Addresses

oo   List of Nodes Using Protocol

oo   Node Traffic by Protocol Type

oo   Multicast Traffic by Protocol Type

oo   Protocol Type Traffic

In addition, the utilization of the LAN can be displayed graphically based 
on the most recent traffic data received from the LTM Listener in intervals 
of one, four, eight, twelve, twenty-four, or forty-eight hours.

The user interacts with the application software through a menu structure, 
and can display both the status and operational parameters of the LTM 
Listener and LTM User Interface.  Counters on the LTM Listener can be set 
to zero, and the host software can stop and start the LTM Listener when 
required. The menu structure also allows the VMS DCL process to be 
"spawned" as well as the terminal detached from the LTM application.


HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as specified in the 
System Support Addendum (SSA 27.80.02-x).

LAN Bridge 100 or LAN Bridge 150

The LAN Bridge will require at least one transceiver drop cable and 
Ethernet connection, H4000 or DELNI, to connect to the Ethernet physical 
channel to be monitored.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System

DECnet-VAX

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.80.02-x) for availability 
    and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VEHA*-**
Software Media: QA-VEHA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VEHAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VEHA*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital 
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, please 
contact your local Digital office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available. For more information, please 
contact your local Digital office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD. 

(TM) Chipcom and Ethermodem are trademarks of Chipcom Corporation.
(R)  The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment 
     Corporation.
(TM) DECnet, DECwindows, LAN Traffic Monitor, LAN Bridge, MicroVAX, VAX, 
     VAXstation, VAXserver, and VT are trademarks of Digital Equipment 
     Corporation.


