 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  POLYCENTER Network Manager 200, Version 1.3      SPD
                         (Formerly DECmcc Basic Management Sys-
 32.48.04                tem, BMS)

 DESCRIPTION

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 is a complete, prepackaged POLY-
 CENTER Product Family management system for multivendor, multi-protocol
 networks. It provides access to, and management functions for, Dig-
 ital Equipment Corporation's ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS (DECnet Phase IV, DEC-
 net/OSI, and TCP/IP) and open network environments. The POLYCENTER Net-
 work Manager 200 is a modular software product that can be extended
 through the addition of other POLYCENTER products, third party, or user-
 developed software modules.

 Available on the OpenVMS and ULTRIX Operating Systems, the POLYCEN-
 TER Network Manager 200 provides both generic and device-specific man-
 agement functions including:

 o  Motif® Graphical User Interface (GUI) and Command Line User Inter-
    faces that provide consistent views and interactions with the man-
    agement system regardless of the objects managed or the protocols
    used to manage them.

 o  Configuration Management functions that include automated discov-
    ery and device registration, topology mapping, and user-defined man-
    agement domains.

 o  Notification and Alarm functions that enable users to define alarm
    rules and set up notification and automated procedures to locate
    existing and potential network problems or events. Enhanced Alarm
    copy and modify capabilities are present in this release of the prod-
    uct.

                               DIGITAL                 February 1993

                                                         AE-PC86E-TE

 

 o  Historical Data Recording and Data Export functions that allow users
    to define, collect, timestamp, and re-use historical network data
    and export POLYCENTER management information to an external rela-
    tional data base.

 o  Device-specific Performance Statistics functions for DECnet Phase
    IV and DECnet/OSI nodes; Digital LAN Bridges; and TCP/IP hosts.

 Consistent with the EMA Director Model, of which it is an implemen-
 tation, the POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 consists of a set of lay-
 ered Management Modules supported by an open applications program in-
 terface (API), an Executive or operating system-like set of module sup-
 port functions, and an object oriented Management Information Repos-
 itory (MIR) providing data structure and storage functions.

 o  Management Modules provide services to users and to one another.
    There are three types of Management Modules:

    -  Function Modules (FMs) provide services such as object regis-
       tration, statistics generation, fault detection, and notifica-
       tion to users and to one another.

    -  Access Modules (AMs) provide remote protocol support for, and
       management information about, different classes of managed ob-
       jects.

    -  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user interface
       for the direct manipulation of managed objects (through AMs) and
       user access to management operations (through FMs).

 o  The Executive provides system services that enable Management Mod-
    ules to be installed and used independently or in combination.

 o  The Applications Programming Interface (API) defines how Manage-
    ment Modules invoke each other's services. The POLYCENTER Frame-
    work API is open and documented to support Digital, third party,
    or user-developed modules.

 o  The Management Information Repository (MIR) provides a means to struc-
    ture and store management information.

                                  2

 

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Function Modules

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 includes generic and device-specific
 FMs that provide a variety of management services to end users and,
 in combination, to one another. These services include configuration
 management functions, fault management functions including alarm and
 notification services, historical data recording and data export func-
 tions, and performance statistics functions.

 Generic FM services provide support for devices accessible through the
 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 AMs, other Digital-developed AMs, or
 AMs developed and supported by third parties and users.

 Configuration Management Functions

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Configuration Management functions in-
 clude both manual and automatic registration of managed objects, and
 support for user-defined domains (groups of managed objects). These
 functions are provided by the following POLYCENTER Network Manager 200
 FMs and services:

 The Registration FM is a generic FM that enables users to enter and
 manage data identifying each managed object in a network environment.
 Such information includes object instance data such as network names
 and addresses, and reference information such as device location, soft-
 ware revision levels, and contact names.

 With the Registration FM, users have the option of selecting a local
 system-level repository, or setting up a network-wide, globally-available
 naming service using Digital's Distributed Name Service (DECdns). With
 DECdns, users and applications can assign names to resources (such as
 nodes, bridges, files, domain names, etc.) and then use those resources
 without having to keep track of physical location or network address.
 The DECdns option also enables multiple POLYCENTER Managers to share
 the same view of managed objects.





                                  3

 

 The Domain FM is a generic FM that enables users to assign managed ob-
 jects into groups called domains. Domains are subsets of the managed
 object configuration that provide user-defined groups that can be based
 on equipment type (all DECnet nodes, all TCP/IP hosts, all LAN Bridges,
 etc.), geography (all objects within a LAN, building, campus, or sub-
 net), personnel levels, or any other user-defined object group. Do-
 mains can contain or refer to other domains and can be hierarchical
 or overlapping. Individual managed objects can be contained within mul-
 tiple domains.

 Autoconfiguration services automatically locate, register, and map man-
 aged objects by class. Supported classes include DECnet Phase IV nodes,
 TCP/IP hosts, and Digital FDDI devices and LAN Bridges. Users can de-
 fine domains for each class, and set network boundaries. The autocon-
 figuration functions can request network instance data from DECnet routers,
 IP gateways, and Bridge spanning trees. As devices are located and man-
 agement information gathered, the functions automatically map them in
 the appropriate user-defined domains and register management data in
 the MIR.

 Note: This function requires that the appropriate POLYCENTER Access Mod-
 ules be installed on the POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 system to reg-
 ister objects. The DECnet Phase IV, DECnet/OSI, and TCP/IP SNMP AMs
 are included in POLYCENTER Network Manager 200. POLYCENTER ELM Access
 Modules must be purchased separately to support LAN Bridge and FDDI
 autoconfiguration topology mapping. Refer to the POLYCENTER ELM SPDs
 (OpenVMS: SPD 31.33.xx or ULTRIX: SPD 38.67.xx) for more information
 about the POLYCENTER ELM products.

 IP Reachability Poller sends notification to POLYCENTER Network Man-
 ager 200 Notification Services when a specific IP node changes state
 (ie. becomes reachable or unreachable. It provides POLYCENTER Network
 Manager 200 an efficient manner to determine if IP nodes are reach-
 able or not.






                                  4

 

 Alarm and Notification Services

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 alarm and notification services are pro-
 vided by a combination of Management Modules. These modules enable users
 to create alarm rules that can detect existing or potential network
 problems, and notification mechanisms for informing users when such
 problems occur or network events happen.

 The Alarms FM provides facilities for users to write rule-based ex-
 pressions (alarm rules) that use polled data or unsolicited event mes-
 sages to trigger alarms. Alarm rules can be written for any managed
 object or entity class for which there is corresponding Access Mod-
 ule protocol support (DECnet Phase IV NICE, SNMP, etc.). Alarm rules
 can be based on state changes, simple arithmetic expressions, or oc-
 currences (unsolicited event messages received through the appropri-
 ate Access Module). Alarm rules can be written for individual managed
 objects or wildcarding can be used to apply rules to all objects in
 a domain for a given object class.

 In addition to the standard POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 notifica-
 tion functions described below, the Alarms FM allows for the execu-
 tion of user-written command procedures. Such command procedures can
 be used to generate terminal broadcast or electronic mail messages,
 or automated procedures that a network manager or operator might im-
 plement when a particular alarm condition occurs.

 In combination with the Network Statistics (also known as the Perfor-
 mance Analysis FM) described below, the alarm functions can be used
 to create threshold alarms based on performance statistics for DEC-
 net Nodes, TCP/IP hosts, RMON probes, or Digital LAN Bridges. In this
 way, alarm rules allow users to detect potential problems before they
 become major network faults.

 The Notification FM and PM enable users to define the mechanisms used
 to alert operators when a particular network or system event has oc-
 curred. The functions recognize two types of events: configuration events,
 which are reported by a managed object or POLYCENTER Management Mod-
 ule; and alarm events, which are generated by the Alarms FM whenever
 a rule fires or encounters an error (i.e., an exception to the rule).

                                  5

 

 When an event occurs, the Motif/Iconic Map PM displays a color change
 on the appropriate object icon and a message in the Notification win-
 dow. Users can define the severity levels and select colors appropri-
 ate to the problem level. POLYCENTER Notification also enables users
 to customize event collection and storage in the following ways:

 o  Logging: logging can be used to store received events to disk. Log
    files are automatically created and purged based on user-definable
    arguments.

 o  Filter: users can filter received events based on the following cri-
    teria: managed object, domain, severity level, message text, or event
    /alarm type.

 o  Target: Notifications (icon color changes) can be redirected from
    the object that generates the event to the object that is the sub-
    ject of the event.

 o  Search: users can search received notifications based on the fol-
    lowing criteria: any field, severity level, notification identi-
    fier, name or address, text description, time stamp, or domain name.

 o  View: users can display a Real-time Graph of the number of noti-
    fications being displayed, collected and filtered; histogram of all
    notifications grouped by severity level; and the maximum notifi-
    cation buffer size.

 o  Change default start-up: users can assign customized colors to the
    six notification severity levels.

 The Event Collector AM (also known as the Data Collector AM) enables
 users to collect events from objects not directly managed by POLYCEN-
 TER Network Manager. Users can create customized icons for any object
 not directly managed by POLYCENTER Network Manager and include it in
 the Iconic Map.

 The Event Collector AM provides a programming interface and a command
 script interface. The programming interface allows users to include


                                  6

 

 code in any application program to send events to POLYCENTER Frame-
 work for display in the Iconic Map or Notification window. The com-
 mand script interface enables users to use OpenVMS DCL command pro-
 cedures or ULTRIX shell scripts to send events to the POLYCENTER Frame-
 work for display in the Iconic Map or Notification window. The trans-
 port mechanisms over which events can be collected have been expanded
 in this version to include both UDP/IP and DECnet.

 Historical Data Collection and Data Export

 Historical Data Collection and Data Export functions are provided by
 the Historian and Export FMs. These generic FMs enable users to col-
 lect, time stamp, and store network data for use by other POLYCENTER
 FMs, such as the Performance Analyzer FM, and export data to exter-
 nal relational databases for addition processing and report writing.

 o  The Historian FM enables users to define the type of data to be col-
    lected, the managed objects or management applications from which
    the data is to be collected, and the collection interval.

 o  The Export FM, when used with a separate, external relational data
    base and report writing tools, can be used to create customized net-
    work usage reports. The historical data recording and data export
    functions can also be used in combination with other POLYCENTER FMs
    to gather statistics, status, and configuration data.

 Note: Use of the Export FM requires that Rdb Runtime for OpenVMS sys-
 tems or ULTRIX/SQL for RISC/ULTRIX systems be installed on the tar-
 get system - the system to which the data is to be exported.

 Performance Statistics Functions

 Performance Statistics FM enables users to access real-time or his-
 torical performance statistics and reports on DECnet, Digital LAN Bridge,
 and TCP/IP objects (including RMON probes). Sample error, traffic, and
 statistics reports are also provided.




                                  7

 

 The Performance Analyzer FM provides data normalization and statis-
 tical functions for DECnet nodes, TCP/IP hosts, RMON probes and Dig-
 ital LAN Bridges.

 Note: LAN Bridge statistics require that the POLYCENTER ELM Access Mod-
 ules be installed on POLYCENTER Network Manager 200. Counters for DEC-
 net node and TCP/IP hosts are gathered by the DECnet AMs and TCP/IP
 SNMP AM respectively, which are included with POLYCENTER Network Man-
 ager 200.

 Assuming that the appropriate Access Modules are installed, the Per-
 formance Analyzer FM supports the following objects/devices:

 o  DECnet Phase IV lines (DDCMP, Ethernet, X.25), circuits (DDCMP, Eth-
    ernet, X.25), and nodes (local and remote)

 o  DECnet/OSI end systems, datalinks (DDCMP, CSMACD, and HDLC), in-
    termediate systems (routing systems), routing ports, and routing
    circuits

 o  Bridge lines (LAN100, LAN150, LAN200, DECbridge 500, and DECbridge
    600)

 o  TCP/IP Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), Exterior Gate-
    way Protocol (EGP), Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP), IN-
    TERFACE (the network interface such as Ethernet), Internet Proto-
    col (IP), Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), User Datagram Pro-
    tocol (UDP), EGP Neighbor table, SNMP child entity, and RMON.

 The Performance Analyzer FM supports the following classes of network
 statistics:

 o  Throughput - the amount of data that is sent between two points in
    a specified unit of time.

 o  Averages - such as Average Outbound Block Size and Average Outbound
    Message Size

 o  Overhead - the amount of control overhead present for circuits and
    lines

 o  Percents - percent of total traffic or resource availability

                                  8

 

 o  Rates - the counts over a specified period of time

 o  Utilization - ratio of real or rated throughput to the actual through-
    put expressed as a percentage, such as Outbound Utilization and Sin-
    gle Destination Utilization

 o  Counts - the normalized value of counters

 These statistics, like all other numeric attributes collected or gen-
 erated by POLYCENTER network management software, can be displayed as
 graphs or histograms in the Graphic Window that is part of the Motif
 GUI Iconic Map interface included with the POLYCENTER Framework, POLY-
 CENTER Network Manager 200, and POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 prod-
 ucts.

 Sample Reports are included with POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 and
 are based on counters and statistics generated by the Performance An-
 alyzer FM.

 Note: Data used for creating the sample reports must be exported to an
 external relational database using the Export FM. In addition, gen-
 erating and setting up the sample reports requires the following soft-
 ware products:

 o  For OpenVMS: CDD Repository, DATATRIEVE, and DECgraph

 o  For ULTRIX: INGRES[TM] Tools for SQL including: INGRES Base Tools
    (with Report-Writer[TM]) and INGRES/Visual-Graphics-Editor (VIGRAPH[TM]).

 o  The sample reports include: traffic, error, traffic summary, er-
    ror summary and bandwidth utilization for DECnet Phase IV, DECnet
    /OSI and TCP/IP SNMP.








                                  9

 

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Access Modules

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 AMs provide access to network and sys-
 tem objects in Digital's ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS and other mixed, multi-
 vendor network environments that use the following management proto-
 cols: DECnet NICE, DECnet/OSI CMIP, SNMP, and IEEE 802.2/Ethernet/MOP.

 o  The DECnet Phase IV AM enables users to manage DECnet Phase IV ob-
    jects such as nodes, circuits, lines, and adjacencies. With the DEC-
    net Phase IV AM, users can modify DECnet parameters, set charac-
    teristics, collect DECnet events, and poll for management data such
    as counters or status.

 o  The DECnet/OSI CMIP AM provides ment access to DECnet devices that
    use DIGITAL's implementation of the standard Common Management In-
    formation Protocol (CMIP). This version of CMIP, implemented on DEC-
    net/OSI devices, provides management operations and data gather-
    ing functions for DECnet/OSI networks including the ability to sink
    DECnet events to the POLYCENTER Framework.

 o  The TCP/IP SNMP AM includes support for the following Internet Ad-
    visory Board (IAB) Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) RFCs:
    1155, 1156, 1157, 1212, and 1213. This includes full MIB II sup-
    port in addition to support for on-site enrollment of vendor-specific
    Enterprise MIBs including:

    -  A MIB translation utility that automatically checks the syntax
       of the ASN.1 Concise MIB definition (providing error messages
       to help identify syntax problems) and translates the data for
       loading the information into the POLYCENTER Framework's Manage-
       ment Information Repository (MIR). The translation utility au-
       tomatically generates on-line HELP.

    -  An event-logging sink for collecting SNMP generic traps (unso-
       licited TCP/IP event messages) including: coldStart, warmStart,
       linkDown, linkUp, egpNeighborLoss, authentificationFailure, and
       enterpriseSpecific. Vendor Specific Traps are also supported with
       this release of the product.

    -  Ability to perform GET and SET operations on devices supported
       by SNMP agents.

                                 10

 

    -  ICMP ECHO_REQUEST (ping) support for verifying the reachabil-
       ity of an SNMP managed object at the IP level.

    Note: DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS (UCX) is required for using
    the TCP/IP SNMP AM on OpenVMS systems.

 o  The IEEE 802.3/Ethernet Station AM enables users to manage at the
    network interface level any 802.3/Ethernet LAN device that supports
    MOP REQID, MOP SYSID, MOP Counters, Ethernet V2 Loopback, IEEE 802.2
    XID, or IEEE 802.2 Test.

 o  Circuit AM works as a client of management protocol modules to pro-
    vide management of circuits connecting endpoints compliant with the
    Network Management Forum (NMF) definitions. Compliant endpoints in-
    clude DECnet Phase IV and DECnet/OSI nodes, and TCP/IP hosts. Ty-
    ing together circuit, line, link, and other end-point data, this
    AM can gather status data and store reference information about sim-
    ple, point-to-point circuits or complex multi-channel circuits.

 o  The Script AM is a generic access module that executes a script (or
    command procedure) and propagates the output data back into POLY-
    CENTER Network Manager 200 as individual attributes. Once integrated,
    these attributes can take advantage of the alarming, notification,
    and recording facilities of POLYCENTER Network Manager 200.

 o  The Script AM offers the following advantages:

    -  Allows integration of data into POLYCENTER Network Manager 200
       quickly and easily. No C code is required to write a script.

    -  Allows management of devices which provide only a command line
       interface.

    -  Allows integration of any data into POLYCENTER Network Manager
       200 as attributes whether from a Structured Query Language (SQL)
       command, a system command or running a script on a remote sys-
       tem.

    -  Allows integration of data from an executable for which source
       code is not available.

                                 11

 

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Presentation Modules

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 includes two Presentation Modules.
 The Motif Graphical User Interface (GUI) provides an iconic map in-
 terface with pull-down and pop-up command and monitor windows that con-
 sistently present all managed objects and operations. Consistent ac-
 cess is also provided by the Forms and Command Line PM.

 The capabilities specific to the Motif GUI presentation style include:

 o  Map windows that display the contents of a managed environment (for
    example, a domain) using icons to represent managed objects and their
    subordinate or child objects. Users can select icons representing
    managed objects and initiate management operations from a map win-
    dow. Several map windows can be displayed at one time, each dis-
    playing different views of domains of a managed environment.

 o  A Navigation box and ViewPort window that enable users to view an
    entire network configuration map at one time. With the ViewPort fea-
    ture, users can navigate to, and select a particular portion of,
    the total network environment to display in detail in the Map win-
    dow.

 o  Management windows that enable users to select, perform, and view
    the results of management operations. Like map windows, several dif-
    ferent management windows can be displayed simultaneously.

 o  Graph windows that enable users to select and display real-time or
    historical numeric attributes, such as counters, graphs or histograms.

 o  A Toolbox window and other customization features that provide users
    with the ability to create, modify, or delete map icons, connect-
    ing lines, text, or other items in a map window. Users can create
    map icons, add geographic maps or other backdrops, and add customized
    icons to the Toolbox for retrieval and re-use.

 o  The POLYCENTER Dictionary Browser lets you examine the management
    objects and their definitions stored in the POLYCENTER Network Man-
    ager 200 dictionary. It provides an easy-to-use graphical alter-
    native to SHOW and DUMP commands available in the Dictionary Ad-
    ministrator Program. Using the Browser, the user can graphically

                                 12

 

    view the types of entities that are configured for a POLYCENTER Net-
    work Manager 200.

 Forms and Command Line PM provides character cell access to POLYCEN-
 TER Network Manager function and access capabilities. The interface
 supports two modes, Command Line Mode and Forms Mode.

 Note: The Forms Mode is not available on ULTRIX.

 The Command Line mode enables users to create names or mnemonics and
 use special symbols to reduce data entry and eliminate input errors.
 It supports command line recall and editing, abbreviation, online help,
 symbol substitution, use of control key sequences, line continuation,
 and the typeahead function.

 Command Line mode also supports the use of scripts to automate fre-
 quently used POLYCENTER Network Manager command sequences. Users can
 set up initialization files through the Command Line mode for estab-
 lishing defaults and executing startup directives. In addition, users
 can log any command to an output file for storage and review.

 The Forms mode provides the basic features of the Command Line mode
 in addition to a scroll feature that enables users to save up to 500
 lines of output from management directives, scroll through the saved
 output, and create new directives based on previous input. The Forms
 mode also allows printing and logging of entries made to the output
 region.

 Both the Forms mode and the Command Line mode, as well as the Iconic
 Map interface, provide online, context-sensitive help.

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Extensibility

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 is an extensible management platform
 to which other POLYCENTER software modules, option packages, third party,
 or user-developed Management Modules can be added. For a list of Dig-
 ital Management Modules that can be added to the POLYCENTER Network
 Manager 200, refer to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section of this product's
 System Support Addendum (SSA 32.48.xx).

                                 13

 

 Third parties and users can develop software modules for POLYCENTER
 Network Management Family of Products to provide access to and man-
 agement functions for any manageable object. Software and documenta-
 tion for the development of integrated POLYCENTER modules are avail-
 able as part of the POLYCENTER Framework Developer's Toolkit. For more
 information about the Developer's Toolkit, refer to SPD 32.49.xx.

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 includes several utilities that enable
 on-site enrollment of Management Modules. Documentation required for
 third party module enrollment must be supplied by the module devel-
 oper.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the Sys-
    tem Support Addendum (SSA 32.48.04-x).

 o  Appropriate Ethernet Controller for the System on which POLYCEN-
    TER Network Manager 200 is installed.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

 For OpenVMS: (supported on VAX configurations)

 For Systems Using Terminals (no Motif interface):

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 For Workstations Running Motif:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System (and necessary components of Motif)

 o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS

 Layered Products:

 o  Rdb/VMS Runtime must be installed on the target system to which data
    is exported using the Export FM


                                 14

 

 o  CDD Repository, DATATRIEVE, and DECgraph are required to access and
    print the sample Performance Analyzer FM reports

 For ULTRIX: (supported on RISC processors)

 For Systems Using Terminals (no Motif interface):

 o  ULTRIX Operating System

 For Workstations (both with and without Motif)

 o  ULTRIX Worksystem Software

 o  DECwindows for OSF/Motif for ULTRIX

 Layered Products:

 o  ULTRIX/SQL must be installed on the system to which data is exported
    using the Export FM. INGRES Base Tools (including ReportWriter) and
    INGRES/Visual Graphics Editor (VIGRAPH) are required to access and
    print the Performance Analyzer FM sample reports

    Note: ULTRIX/SQL V2.0 has entered product phasedown. Support for UL-
    TRIX/SQL will be discontinued after December 31, 1993. ULTRIX/SQL
    is no longer available with ULTRIX V4.3. To ease migration, the UL-
    TRIX/SQL license and distribution kit will be included with the POLY-
    CENTER Network Manager 200 until December 31, 1993.

 *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.48.04-x) for avail-
    ability and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 For OpenVMS:

 Software Licenses: QL-YSUA*-**
 Software Media: QA-YSUA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YSUA*-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YSUA*-**

 For ULTRIX

                                 15

 

 Software Licenses: QL-GU5A*-**
 Software Media: QA-GU5A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-GU5A*-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-GU5A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support:

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS and ULTRIX License Manage-
 ment Facilities.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 basis.

 Note: To use POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 in a Diskless Management
 Services (DMS) environment, the DMS server must be a supported POLY-
 CENTER Network Manager 200 configuration, including a comparable POLY-
 CENTER Network Manager 200 license.

 Note: DECmcc Site Management Station (SMS) users are entitled to use
 the POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 product, as DECmcc SMS has been re-
 tired as of December, 1992. DECmcc SMS customers should contact their
 Digital sales/service representative for more information and details.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx),
 ULTRIX Operating System (SPD 26.40.xx), or the OpenVMS or ULTRIX Op-
 erating System documentation.



                                 16

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 Network Management Services are also available. These include, but are
 not restricted to, the following:

 o  Network Management Operations Services

 o  Network Management Planning and Design Services

 o  Network Management Implementation Services

 o  Network Management Training

 For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 

 ®  Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, VAX, MicroVAX, V CI. DEC, DECsystem, DEC-
    station, POLYCENTER, DECnet, ULTRIX, DECmcc, DECthreads,
    ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS, MicroVAX, VAX, VAXcluster, and VMS are
    trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

 [TM]INGRES, ReportWriter, and VIGRAPH are trademarks of INGRES
    Corporation.





                                 17
