 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  POLYCENTER Scheduler OpenVMS V2.1       SPD 32.19.04

 DESCRIPTION

 POLYCENTER Scheduler OpenVMS is a distributed scheduling application
 that automates the execution of repetitive production jobs on Open-
 VMS, OpenVMS AXP, and remote DEC OSF/1 AXP, ULTRIX RISC and Windows
 NT[TM] systems. A job is a command procedure or an operating system
 command string. POLYCENTER Scheduler separates information that spec-
 ifies how jobs should be run from the jobs themselves. It automati-
 cally takes care of the job rescheduling calculation and completion
 notification. A scheduled job can run when constraints on its execu-
 tion are met. There are two types of constraints; the time must be LATER
 than the job's scheduled time, and all jobs that the job depends on
 must be completed with a successful status later than the last time
 the job completed. A job can depend on up to 16 other jobs, within a
 VMScluster or on remote nodes of a wide area DECnet network. POLYCEN-
 TER Scheduler supports effectively unlimited dependencies because each
 one of the 16 jobs can be a place holder for 16 more dependencies.
 Job database information can be easily accessed through DCL commands.
 Most commands can also work remotely over the network, allowing cen-
 tralized control of distributed applications.

 POLYCENTER Scheduler provides customizable special day classes.

 Special day classes:

 o  Contain a list of absolute days

 o  Are shareable among different users

 o  Require SYSPRV or OPER privilege to create them

 o  Are available to ALL users on the system

                               DIGITAL                     June 1993

                                                         AE-PBJ7E-TE

 

 o  Work in conjunction with the job's schedule interval

 o  Allow the scheduling of jobs on a non-regular basis

 o  Jobs can be set to run on or not run on the specified days

 POLYCENTER Scheduler offers OpenVMS Batch as an optional execution en-
 gine on OpenVMS systems; you can run jobs as a detached process (the
 default) or as an OpenVMS Batch job. This feature uses the VAX/VMS lock
 manager to ensure reliable job tracking.

 POLYCENTER Scheduler provides agents that can execute jobs on ULTRIX
 RISC, DEC OSF/1 AXP, and Windows NT systems. Actual job scheduling must
 take place on an OpenVMS system, and job information resides on this
 system.

 There are three agents: ULTRIX RISC, DEC OSF/1 AXP, and Windows NT.
 Each agent works basically the same. The ULTRIX command is sent to the
 ULTRIX system and is executed on that system. The DEC OSF/1 AXP com-
 mand is sent to the DEC OSF/1 AXP system and is executed there. The
 Windows NT command is sent to the Windows NT system and is executed
 on that system. Completion status is sent back to the OpenVMS system.

 POLYCENTER Scheduler for OpenVMS has full VMScluster failover capa-
 bilities. Jobs can be divided into steps. Interrupted jobs can be restarted
 automatically at the current step on another node in the VAXcluster.
 Jobs can be run on any node in a cluster or restricted to a single node.
 An installation modifiable load-balancing procedure can be invoked at
 execution time to select the VMScluster node for job execution.

 POLYCENTER Scheduler includes an event logging/reporting facility which
 can be used to produce job reports.

 Features

 o  Choice of four user interfaces - DCL, DECwindows, menu-driven, or
    callable (API).



                                  2

 

 o  Customizable special days and fiscal calendars. Allows jobs to run
    only on specified days and/or prohibits jobs from running on spec-
    ified days. Works in conjunction with schedule interval. Day classes
    can be shared among different users.

 o  Identifier-based access to jobs to control job access through iden-
    tifiers. Each POLYCENTER Scheduler job can have a READ, a WRITE,
    and an EXECUTE identifier. This allows access control to individ-
    ual POLYCENTER Scheduler jobs on a user by user basis, and elim-
    inates the need for privileges for operations personnel. It also
    removes the need for privileged proxy accounts for remote control
    of privileged jobs.

 o  Job execution on OpenVMS, OpenVMS AXP, ULTRIX RISC, DEC OSF/1 AXP,
    and Windows NT allows centralized control in a mixed operating sys-
    tem environment.

 o  OpenVMS Batch supported as an execution engine. Jobs may be run in
    batch OR as a detached process. Use of VMS locks provides reliable
    job tracking. If OpenVMS Batch is the mode chosen, job start time
    is not guaranteed due to the nature of OpenVMS Batch queues.

 o  Option of automatically sending an OPCOM message upon job comple-
    tion. This is controlled from the DCL interface via the qualifier
    /OPCOM, from the DECwindows interface in the CREATE and EDIT win-
    dows, and from the DECforms interface Create Job screen or Edit Job
    screen. Additional notification methods include mail and terminal
    broadcast.

 o  Automated error recovery can be achieved by specifying a POLYCEN-
    TER Scheduler job to be executed automatically in the event of a
    /STALL or /MAX_TIME condition.

 o  Ability to predict future run schedules and resource usage, based
    on historical run data (average times consumed).

 o  Modifiable VAXcluster load balancing.

 o  Repetitive jobs executed without the need for command files.

                                  3

 

 o  Jobs can be synchronized with up to 16 other POLYCENTER Scheduler
    jobs within the wide area network. The DCL user interface shows which
    job dependencies have been satisfied and which are still pending.

 o  Date/time (calendar and fiscal) and node/ cluster run specifica-
    tions for jobs. Jobs run automatically at regular intervals and/or
    are restricted to run on certain days of the week. Jobs can be re-
    stricted to run on one or more nodes in a cluster.

 o  Job recovery/restart mechanism. Interrupted jobs can be automat-
    ically restarted at the current step on the same node or another
    node in the VAXcluster (the user interface displays the step cur-
    rently executing if the restart symbol is used).

 o  Remote job scheduling via the LAN or WAN.

 o  Time limits for jobs. Notifies user when a job has exceeded the des-
    ignated execution time (elapsed time for detached processes, CPU
    time for OpenVMS Batch jobs). It can also notify the user if a job
    failed to start by a deadline, after the scheduled time. Under these
    conditions, it can also run another specified job.

 o  Commands that operate on multiple jobs. Jobs can be specified by
    Group and Type as well as by name. Jobname, Group and Type are strings
    up to 40 characters in length. The DCL user interface supports the
    use of wildcards. For example, the DCL command:

    $ sched run a*/group=%o*/type=*back/user=*s*/confirm

    would prompt for the running of all jobs in the local VAXcluster
    with names that begin with the letter "A", a type that ends in "BACK",
    a group with "O" in the second character position, owned by users
    with an "S" in their username.

 o  Prefunctions and postfunctions that can automatically run before
    and after the job.

 o  Ability to specify parameters or override job defaults (node, out-
    put file) on the run command.

 o  Three levels of job status display - from a one line summary to full
    display.

                                  4

 

 o  Job reporting facility.

 o  Customizable log file for each POLYCENTER Scheduler node that pro-
    vides POLYCENTER Scheduler event logging, diagnostics, full VMS ac-
    counting records, and seven additional activity records.

 Restrictions

 You may need to modify existing command procedures to run with POLY-
 CENTER Scheduler. For example, you may need to remove existing schedul-
 ing code, since often procedures may be set to resubmit themselves to
 batch and this is not required with POLYCENTER Scheduler. Existing jobs
 may also need to have operator notification code removed from them,
 since POLYCENTER Scheduler handles this. It is also possible that er-
 ror recovery may have to be updated. POLYCENTER Scheduler assumes the
 status of the job to be the status of the last command executed, so
 if the job has its own special error handling inside the code, it may
 have to be modified to assure exit with the proper status. Jobs which
 do not exit with success prevent other jobs that are dependent on them
 from running.

 o  If a job is to be run as a detached process, (the POLYCENTER Sched-
    uler default), checks for the F$MODE of the process will result in
    "OTHER", so some logic may have to be changed. This is not the case
    with the POLYCENTER Scheduler using batch as an execution mode.

 o  If batch is used as the execution mode, POLYCENTER Scheduler will
    simply submit the job to the specified batch queue. Any character-
    istics of the queue will impact POLYCENTER Scheduler jobs, includ-
    ing the queue's run priority. Actual execution of the job will be
    subject to the queue system on the machine(s):

    o  If the queue is generic, the job may be run on a different node.
       That node must have POLYCENTER Scheduler installed on it.

    o  If the queue is stopped or stalled, the job may not run as sched-
       uled.

    o  If the execution queue is beyond its executing jobs limit, the
       jobs may have to wait.

                                  5

 

    o  If the queue entry is deleted, or otherwise manually manipulated,
       the results of the job may be unpredictable.

    o  If the queue system distributes the job to an execution queue
       on a machine where there is no POLYCENTER Scheduler license, the
       job will fail.

 o  If any currently running job has its execution mode changed, the
    results of the current run may be unpredictable.

 o  A job cannot have different sets of dependencies for different days
    of the week.

 Day restrictions for cyclic jobs with dependencies sometimes do not
 produce the desired behavior when production spans day boundaries. Usu-
 ally these problems can be solved by modifying the time calculation
 algorithm for the specific jobs using the /USE_NEXT qualifier.

 Documentation

 The POLYCENTER Scheduler Documentation Set consists of:

    POLYCENTER Scheduler for OpenVMS Installation
    POLYCENTER Scheduler for OpenVMS User Information
    POLYCENTER Scheduler for OpenVMS Programming

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Systems and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System Sup-
 port Addendum (SSA 32.19.04-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows User Interface):
 OpenVMS Operating System
 For Workstations Running VWS:
 OpenVMS Operating System
 OpenVMS Workstation Software


                                  6

 

 For Workstations Running DECwindows:
 OpenVMS Operating System

 Layered Products:

 DECnet-VAX (end-node)

 DECforms Runtime License (for menu-driven interface)

 DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS
 for systems supporting remote ULTRIX RISC, DEC OSF/1 AXP and Windows
 NT

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.10.04- x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-YLLA*-**
 Software Media: QA-YLLA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YLLAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YLLA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support:

 The POLYCENTER Scheduler OpenVMS layered product supports the Open-
 VMS License Management Facility.


                                  7

 

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
 tem documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum to this SPD.
 
 [TM] Windows NT is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, AXP, DEC, DECforms, DECnet, DECwindows,
     OpenVMS, POLYCENTER, POLYCENTER Scheduler, ULTRIX, VAX, VAX-
     cluster, and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corpora-
     tion.











                                  8
