
 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office System Server         SPD
 27.30.07                for OpenVMS[*], Version 3.0

 DESCRIPTION

 ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office System (IOS) Server for OpenVMS is a cus-
 tomizable, menu-oriented software product that provides generic of-
 fice applications and a facility for integrating other business-oriented
 applications. ALL-IN-1 IOS unifies these applications into an easy-
 to-use, menu-driven, information system, and provides facilities to
 enable group-working and document sharing.

 Through ALL-IN-1 IOS electronic mail and links into Digital Equipment
 Corporation's networking facilities, users can transport or receive
 information that has been created on desktop, departmental, and cor-
 porate systems.

 ALL-IN-1 IOS consists of:

 o  ALL-IN-1 Office Applications

 o  VAX FMS
    (includes both FMS and Forms Language Translator)

 o  ALL-IN-1 Group Conferencing
    (based on VAX Notes and ALL-IN-1/VAX Notes Programming Interface)

 o  Message Router OpenVMS Gateway
    (includes both the Message Router and the Gateway to OpenVMS Per-
    sonal Mail Utility)

 o  CDA Converter Library for OpenVMS
    (required for use with CDA Support)

 ____________________

 The   terms OpenVMS and VMS refer to the OpenVMS operating system.

                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-HI10J-TE

 

 o  ALL-IN-1 CDA Interoperability kit

 o  ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for OpenVMS
    (rights to use only; media sold separately)

 ALL-IN-1 IOS provides an environment in which users access applica-
 tions in a consistent manner. A user's documents are stored in the File
 Cabinet where they are accessed from the office applications.

 The generic office applications are built upon the base system facil-
 ities. These facilities are available when customizing or developing
 applications that are to be consistent with the ALL-IN-1 IOS environ-
 ment.

 Office Applications

 File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

 The ALL-IN-1 IOS File Cabinet is similar in function to a standard of-
 fice filing cabinet - drawers consist of documents contained within
 folders. Folders are in alphabetical order and documents within the
 folders are in order by date and time of creation. The latest docu-
 ment is listed first, except for the INBOX where the latest document
 is listed last.

 All previously created folders are stored in the MAIN drawer, along
 with the messaging folders - INBOX, OUTBOX, CREATED, READ. Users can
 create other drawers, which can be shared or private.

 Document information (such as title, date created, document number,
 author, keywords, and type) is maintained in the File Cabinet. Facil-
 ities are provided for the user to maintain and manage the contents
 of the File Cabinet. The user can print or delete more than one doc-
 ument at a time. Selection of the documents can be made with user-specified
 criteria.

 Documents (individual or by folder) can be re-filed, cross-filed, or
 duplicated. Information such as title and associated keywords can be
 changed. When a document has multiple cross-filings, only one copy of
 the document body is stored.

                                  2

 

 Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket until the Waste-
 basket is emptied.

 A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of documents or con-
 tents of the user's screen can be temporarily placed. Contents of the
 scratch pad can be inserted into a document, edited, printed, mailed,
 or read.

 The File Cabinet provides access to documents through a common mech-
 anism regardless of the format of the documents. Support is provided
 as standard for ASCII, DX, and WPS-PLUS formats.

 ALL-IN-1 IOS provides a feature that allows the user and system man-
 ager to archive/restore any ALL-IN-1 document from the shared areas
 or from a user's File Cabinet.

 o  Shared Filing

    Users can create shared drawers to allow other users to read and
    edit shared documents. Access controls are provided so that the drawer
    owner can specify which users are allowed to access a drawer and
    the operations they are allowed to perform in it. Concurrency con-
    trol ensures that certain actions are prohibited while a user is
    modifying a shared document. For example, while a user is editing
    a shared document, other users attempting to edit that document will
    be informed the document is in use and who is editing the document.

    Shared Filing links all users' File Cabinets on a system or across
    systems via the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option. Refer to the
    ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option Software Product Description
    (SPD 36.79.xx).

 o  Group Services

    Users can define a set of users as a group. Multiple groups can be
    defined. Groups can be assigned access privileges to shared doc-
    uments or drawers. Members can be added or deleted from a group and
    associated access rights are automatically assigned or removed.


                                  3

 

 o  SFCP Migration

    A utility program converts SFCP File Cabinets into shared drawers.
    Each of the resultant shared drawers is added to the File Cabinet
    of those users who have been granted access. The user's access rights
    are preserved.

 Electronic Messaging

 The Electronic Messaging application provides a means of exchanging
 messages with other users. The user can create, edit, print, delete,
 read, and send messages. The message header (which contains addressee(s),
 subject, and mail classification) and the text of the message can be
 edited.

 When creating a message, the user specifies the addressee(s) to whom
 the message is to be sent and, optionally, any addressee(s) to receive
 copies of the message. To save time with addressing, the user can cre-
 ate distribution lists or nicknames (seen only by the user).

 Incoming messages can be forwarded and/or answered. Answers can be di-
 rected to the sender only, or to all the recipients of the message.
 Confirmation that the addressee(s) has received and/or read the mes-
 sage can be requested. Priority for delivery of the message can be as-
 signed as Express, First Class, or Second Class. The user can spec-
 ify the sending of a message be deferred to a time chosen by the user.

 Messages appear and are treated as documents to the user. ALL-IN-1 IOS
 maintains folders for incoming, read, created, and sent messages. Once
 a message is sent, one copy of that message is shared (per system or
 cluster) by the sender and receiver(s) and cannot be edited. Messages
 can be re-filed and cross-filed in the user's file cabinet. Documents
 already in the file cabinet can be sent to other users.

 The user can choose to have all incoming messages automatically for-
 warded to another user. Alternatively, the user can create a reply mes-
 sage that is sent in response to all incoming mail (for example, "I
 am out of the office until. . . .").


                                  4

 

 Shared Filing within Electronic Messaging ensures that UI operations
 behave correctly in shared and distributed environments. Mail Oper-
 ations always take place in the user's MAIN drawer, whatever the pre-
 vious context.

 An index of attachments to a message can be displayed and a set of op-
 tions is provided for printing or reading individual attachments. At-
 tachments can be filed as revisable text or as messages which can be
 answered or forwarded.

 The Set Mail User (SMU) Option allows a user to perform mail opera-
 tions on behalf of another user, such as a secretary for a manager.
 The Grant Mail Access (GMA) Option lets users specify other users who
 may process their mail. The mail header displays both users' names when
 a mail message is sent.

 Addressing enhancements include user interface improvements; the abil-
 ity to create a distribution list using the list of addresses from a
 received Message Header; and improved nickname support - longer nick-
 names, easier manipulation of the long mail addresses common on mes-
 sages sent or received via gateways to other mail systems, and the abil-
 ity to create a nickname from the sender of a message.

 Exchange of messages with ALL-IN-1 IOS users on other systems in a DEC-
 net network is provided by Message Router for OpenVMS. Message Router
 OpenVMSmail Gateway allows ALL-IN-1 users to exchange messages with
 users of the OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility. Refer to the VAX Message
 Router for OpenVMS Software Product Description (SPD 26.33.xx).

 Document Processing

 The Document Processing application enables users to create, edit, print,
 delete, and read documents. The editor used is dependent upon the user's
 preference indicated in the User Profile. ALL-IN-1 IOS users have a
 choice of editing styles: EDT, TPU, WPS, and WPS-PLUS.





                                  5

 

 EDT, TPU, and WPS are ASCII editors. EDT and TPU use keying conven-
 tions and terminology oriented toward the more technical user. WPS uses
 keying conventions and terminology that make it a subset of WPS-PLUS.
 WPS is available to users who have a word processing orientation but
 desire ASCII output.

 The optionally installable WPS-PLUS for ALL-IN-1 IOS is Digital's full
 function word processor. This version significantly expands the ca-
 pabilities of WPS-PLUS by providing true proportional spacing, font
 selection, support for PostScript® output, a new multi-column editor
 (up to 25 Left/Right margins within a ruler), the ability to create
 and/or edit up to 10 documents at one time. User Enhancements include
 a more versatile status line, "Start" and "End" Control Blocks inserted
 together with a single keystroke, and many more.

 Highlights of WPS-PLUS are:

 o  Insert or Overstrike Mode.

 o  User control of margins and tabs, including left-justified, right-
    justified, and decimal-aligned tabs.

 o  Automatic Centering, Underlining, Bolding, Double Underscoring, Change
    Bars, and Redlining.

 o  Technical Characters and Scientific Equations editing.

 o  Support for Wide Documents, up to 256 characters.

 o  Numbered Footnotes, Paragraph Numbering to nine levels, Automatic
    Table of Contents generation, Table of Authorities, and Word In-
    dexing.

 o  Widow/Orphan control and No-break Blocks.

 o  Column Cut and Paste.

 o  List Processing and Sort to produce form letters and maintain mail-
    ing lists - background processing is supported.

 o  Abbreviation and Library documents.

 o  Two-dimensional Editor for creation of diagrams and equations.

                                  6

 

 Time Management

 Time Management offers the facility to maintain a personal calendar
 of events and tasks. An "Events at a Glance" screen gives the user an
 editable picture of the day's events, which makes it easy to make changes.
 Likewise, the "Tasks at a Glance" screen gives the user an editable
 picture of the tasks for the day. These pictures are combined on an
 "Events and Tasks" screen where other Time Management operations can
 be performed.

 Users can tailor Time Management and display only the screens and op-
 tions that are of interest to them.

 Users can schedule, reschedule, or cancel an event. In an event in-
 volving other attendees, Time Management uses the Electronic Messag-
 ing application to deliver meeting notifications and confirmations.
 Users can also reserve unavailable time on their calendars. An entry
 in the user's calendar can be marked confidential and other users can-
 not read the description of the entry. Recurring events can be sched-
 uled whereby an attendee's "Yes" reply schedules all occurrences of
 the meeting on the calendar.

 Time Management has the ability to perform a multinode scan. This scan
 will return a graph of potential attendees' free time prior to the schedul-
 ing of the meeting. It will scan both local and off-node calendars in
 real time.

 The Tasks facility is provided to track reminders, to-do lists, ac-
 tion items, and so forth. Tasks are not necessarily tied to a specific
 day or time of day. Tasks can be viewed by selection criteria such as:
 open versus closed, a range of beginning dates, deadlines, and so forth.

 Group Conferencing

 An ALL-IN-1 IOS user interface has been applied to Digital's VAX Notes
 application to provide the Group Conferencing feature.




                                  7

 

 This feature gives users the ability to communicate on a many-to-many
 basis while taking advantage of ALL-IN-1's ease of use. Application
 developers can benefit from VAX Notes being integrated at the API level
 in developing business or professional-specific applications that can
 use this conferencing capability.

 Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Support

 ALL-IN-1 IOS provides support for the following new data types:

 o  DDIF - the standard CDA encoding format

 o  DOTS - the format for packing and transferring composite CDA doc-
    uments

 o  DTIF - the CDA encoding format for tables

 o  PS - the final form PostScript document format

 Users will be able to send and receive these document types in mail,
 store them in their filing cabinet, read, print, copy, and convert them.

 ALL-IN-1 IOS allows the datatypes to be read, with the exception of
 PostScript. The quality of formatting of the displayed data depends
 on the CDA facilities provided by the underlying OpenVMS system. ALL-IN-1
 IOS uses the CDA character cell formatter, which gives improved re-
 sults with correct formatting and the inclusion of externally refer-
 enced files.

 ALL-IN-1 IOS will attempt to print CDA documents in PostScript if the
 destination printer is capable of it; otherwise, ALL-IN-1 IOS will con-
 vert the document to ASCII text before printing.

 The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to/from the new
 datatypes.

 If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a standard editor,
 the normal handling will result in a message telling the user that the
 document format is not supported by the editor. However, the user can
 convert a CDA document into a suitable format for editing and then use
 the appropriate editor. Through conversion, there is a potential for
 formatting attributes to be lost.

                                  8

 

 CDA Base Services supports the ALL-IN-1 IOS File Cabinet, thus allow-
 ing documents live-linked by any CDA application. Users will also be
 able to unpack composite documents into the File Cabinet.

 Application programmers will have access to the CDA tools through the
 provision of API functions.

 Communications

 The Communications application enables users to access other computer
 systems without needing to understand anything about communication tech-
 nology.

 For more knowledgeable users, entire communications sessions can be
 automated through the use of Control Documents. (Control Documents are
 standard ALL-IN-1 documents that contain a set of special commands.)
 Connection to other computer systems is fully automated if autodial
 modems or hardwired connections are permitted. The connection is by
 means of an OpenVMS terminal port (RS232 type) and can be connected
 to any computer system supporting such terminal types.

 Facilities are also provided to transfer files to and from a DECmate
 II, a DECmate III, OpenVMS, and in or out of the user's file cabinet.

 Desk Calculator

 The Desk Calculator enables the user to perform interactive calcula-
 tions and include the results in documents. Desk Calculator operates
 in two modes: Calculator and Formula. Formula mode is used for com-
 plicated formulas that combine trigonometric and arithmetic functions.
 Calculator Mode is used for simple arithmetic computations. The al-
 ternate keypad is operated the same way as a standard calculator.

 Directories

 The Directories subsystem provides access and maintenance to direc-
 tories available to the user. The user can view a directory, maintained
 by the system manager, that contains telephone numbers and addresses.
 A directory of all the ALL-IN-1 IOS users can also be viewed.

                                  9

 

 Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and view a personal
 telephone directory, nicknames, and distribution lists.

 With the installation of Distributed Directory Service, ALL-IN-1 IOS
 provides the user with the ability to perform mail directory searches
 on defined criteria such as name, department, location, and organi-
 zation.

 Systemwide Features

 Menu Navigation

 Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus. Experienced
 users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

 The user can interrupt their current activity to read a new mail mes-
 sage, display the current time, or to access Time Management, Direc-
 tories, Desk Calculator, and Scratch Pad.

 Users familiar with OpenVMS commands can have direct access to the com-
 mands without leaving ALL-IN-1 IOS.

 Two styles of user interface are provided. One interface uses menus
 similar to other ALL-IN-1 applications. The other interface (hard-copy
 mode) is utilized, for efficiency, mainly over dial-up lines. This mode
 does not display the full screen menu but displays the menu in a strip
 form.

 Help

 Users can invoke Help for any part of ALL-IN-1 IOS by pressing the Help
 key. The Help facility provides basic information on the function in
 question without the user having to reference the documentation.

 On-line Training

 Users can learn how to use the system using the on-line Training fa-
 cilities. Training leads the user through sets of interactive screens
 and explains how the various features of ALL-IN-1 IOS work. A New Fea-
 tures module is provided to aid experienced ALL-IN-1 IOS users.

                                 10

 

 User-Defined Processes

 User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated key sequences.
 There is no limit to the number of UDPs or the number of keystrokes
 that can be stored in a UDP. One UDP can invoke another UDP.

 Document Handling

 Document Reservation allows each user exclusive use of a document while
 editing.

 The Document handling model makes a clear distinction between revis-
 able and final form documents. The model provides clear separation of
 formatting and printing, so that formatting of documents can be per-
 formed separately from printing.

 The background formatter provides CDA formatting, which enables CDA
 formatting to be performed in both foreground and background.

 Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports the doc-
 ument's final form. If the destination does not support the final form,
 then, where possible, the document is converted to a format that is
 supported, or the user will be advised to print to a different printer.

 Printing

 The Printing facility provides the user the ability to specify where
 a document is to be printed, the number of copies, and the output for-
 mat. The output can be directed to any of the printers available to
 the ALL-IN-1 IOS user, another document, or to the user's terminal.
 Documents that specify Runoff handling are automatically processed by
 Digital Standard Runoff (DSR) before output. Printing is handled in
 the background, freeing the terminal for other actions when interac-
 tion with the print formatter is not needed.

 Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports the doc-
 ument's final form format.



                                 11

 

 Print and LPS print options (LPS20 and LPS40) can be specified dur-
 ing a print operation. System-defined and user-defined print styles
 can be utilized for improved ease-of-use. Throughput of jobs during
 a multiple print operation has been improved.

 Job Services

 ALL-IN-1 IOS provides users the ability to perform operations on their
 jobs in print, batch, and server queues. Using the multiple select in-
 dexing capability, users can get information on jobs, delete jobs, edit
 their attributes, and restart currently executing jobs.

 Management of queues and jobs can be performed within ALL-IN-1 IOS.
 Managers can assign one or more users to manage specific local queues.

 Profile

 Each ALL-IN-1 IOS user has a user profile that contains information
 pertaining to the user.

 The user can access and modify part of their user profile including
 full name, address, telephone number, department, and title. In ad-
 dition, user preference information (such as work week and working hours,
 editing style, mail notification, and read receipt handling) can be
 modified.

 The System Manager maintains information such as user privileges, de-
 fault directory, and form library access.

 Index Select

 A user can create an index selection list by selecting or deselect-
 ing objects from the index. Operations (such as print, delete, cross-
 file, and so forth) can be performed on the list as if they were a sin-
 gle entity. An index menu lists the options available to the current
 selected index. Within an index, a user can scroll either forward or
 backward.

 International Support

                                 12

 

 ALL-IN-1 IOS is designed to support multi-lingual operations. This sup-
 port is subject to availability of the specific translation (refer to
 the System Support Addendum, SSA 27.30.07-x). ALL-IN-1 IOS can be de-
 ployed in a multi-lingual network and can support multi-lingual op-
 erations on a single system. However, all language kits, including U.S.
 English, must be the same version.

 System Management

 The System Management utilities are used to perform routine mainte-
 nance of ALL-IN-1 IOS, such as scheduling and rescheduling of house-
 keeping procedures, management of printers, direct maintenance of net-
 work and DDS profiles, metering, and quota management of the shared
 area. A system manager has the option of creating a non-OpenVMS priv-
 ileged system administrator for the purpose of administering the man-
 agement of the following: user accounts (create, delete, move, rename),
 document archiving, system distribution lists, scheduling of house-
 keeping tasks, monitoring of ALL-IN-1 exception and information re-
 ports, and the initiation of ALL-IN-1 shutdown.

 ALL-IN-1 IOS supplies a metering facility that provides system man-
 agers the ability to collect resource usage within ALL-IN-1 IOS ses-
 sions for predefined events. Application developers can define and cre-
 ate their own additional meters. Meters will record the number of times
 a meter is called, CPU usage, Direct I/O, Buffered I/O and Page Faults.
 Metered events can also be collected by DECtrace, if it is installed
 on the system. This provides facilities for managing and reporting the
 information collected.

 Customization and Application Development

 ALL-IN-1 IOS is a form-driven system that uses VAX FMS (Forms Manage-
 ment System). For more information on VAX FMS, refer to the Software
 Product Description (SPD 26.10.xx).

 In conjunction with VAX FMS and VAX FMS Form Language Translator, the
 ALL-IN-1 Application Development utilities allow changes to be made
 to the ALL-IN-1 system. ALL-IN-1 IOS can be altered to fit customer-
 specific requirements and provides a platform for application devel-
 opment and integration. ALL-IN-1 IOS provides a programming interface

                                 13

 

 to common functions and mechanisms to pass control from one applica-
 tion or function to another (i.e., Flow Control). These functions have
 been enhanced in ALL-IN-1 IOS.

 Customization Management provides support for additional element types.
 All customizable element types that ship with ALL-IN-1 IOS are sup-
 ported, as well as support for customer's own element types.

 Installing and managing customizations to applications is supported
 through the introduction of application areas. Support for customized
 corporate systems is provided through the use of application areas.
 In addition, transferring customizations and applications from one sys-
 tem to another is also supported.

 Context sensitive menu options are available, which allow the display
 and choice of only those menu options relevant to a particular ele-
 ment type.

 Customization management provides enhanced features for the program-
 mer and manager. This includes improved reporting, notifying the man-
 ager pending request, and request completion notifications. ALL-IN-1
 IOS also introduces the concept of Application Maintainer, so that the
 ALL-IN-1 System Manager does not have to be solely responsible for the
 management of new or modified applications.

 The features within Customization Management allow system managers and
 application programmers to modify their standard ALL-IN-1 system in
 a controlled and disciplined manner. It provides the ability to cre-
 ate, modify, index, and control customizations as well as providing
 a modification history record for each customization.

 DESKtop Server for ALL-IN-1 Clients

 ALL-IN-1 IOS provides server support for DESKtops (Macintosh® and DOS
 systems) by implementing client/server technology. The license for ALL-IN-1
 IOS allows usage of the ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for OpenVMS. The Me-
 dia Kit must be ordered separately. For more details on the capabil-
 ities of the server and available clients, refer to the ALL-IN-1 DESKtop
 Server for OpenVMS Software Product Description (SPD 31.71.xx).

                                 14

 

 IBM® 3270 Terminal Support

 ALL-IN-1 IOS can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards on CUT
 mode terminals that are supported using the CMX04 option card in a DEC-
 server 550:

 o  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

 o  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

 o  102 Key Typewriter

 o  87 Key Typewriter

 The ALL-IN-1 Kit contains a 3270 keyboard Quick Reference Card show-
 ing the ALL-IN-1 functions.

 Documentation

 The following documentation is standard with ALL-IN-1 IOS:

 o  Read Me First

 o  System Management Documentation:

    -  Release Notes (on-line)

    -  ALL-IN-1 Installation Guide

    -  Differences from ALL-IN-1 V2.4 (on-line, part of the Conflict
       Checking and Resolution Tool (CART))

    -  Management Guide

    -  Mail Management Guide

    -  CDA Converter Library Documentation

    -  Message Router Documentation

    -  OpenVMSmail Gateway Documentation

    -  VAX FMS V2.4 Installation Guide

    -  VAX Notes Installation Guide

                                 15

 

 o  Application Development Reference Guides:

    -  Application Programming: Getting Started

    -  Application Programming: Guide

    -  Application Programming: Using Customization Management

    -  Application Programming: Reference Volume 1, 2

    -  Application Programming: FMS Reference

    -  Application Programming: User Interface Standards

    -  Application Programming: Mini Reference

    -  Application Programming: Index

 o  ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server API Manual

 o  General User Documentation:

    -  ALL-IN-1 User's Handbook

    -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Mini Reference

    -  Keyboard Cards

 o  Super User Documentation:

    -  ALL-IN-1 User's Reference

    -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS User's Reference

    -  ALL-IN-1 Administration Guide

    -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Printer Characteristics

    -  Keyboard Cards

    -  Making the Transition to Proportional Printing

 Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased separately.

 Customers wishing to modify the documentation to reflect the customiza-
 tion of their ALL-IN-1 system should contact their local Digital Sales
 Office for information.

                                 16

 

 SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

 In order to facilitate customization of ALL-IN-1 IOS, several source
 code modules are provided on all available distribution media for this
 product. This source code is provided without any warranty of any kind,
 either express or implied.

 Note: VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language is required if .B32, .BLI,
 or .REQ modules are to be used in customizing ALL-IN-1 IOS. VAX BLISS-
 32 is not a prerequisite for the construction of site-defined func-
 tions.

 INSTALLATION

 Only customers with experience in managing OpenVMS and ALL-IN-1 should
 attempt installation of this product. Digital recommends that all other
 customers purchase Digital's Installation Services. These services pro-
 vide for installation of the software product by an experienced Dig-
 ital Software Specialist.

 The CART (Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool)

 This tool is included as part of the installation procedures, but should
 be run prior to the upgrade to ALL-IN-1 IOS. It examines the customiza-
 tions on the existing system and signals what changes are required to
 migrate applications and customizations. It contains a number of pro-
 cedures which check for changed messages, mandatory changes, and a check-
 list generated from the Differences document. An option allows the Dif-
 ferences document to be printed prior to an upgrade to ALL-IN-1 IOS.

 Co-existent Systems

 This facility allows the installation of ALL-IN-1 IOS on a system al-
 ready running either ALL-IN-1 V2.3 or V2.4. It allows customers to eval-
 uate new functionality and to plan the migration of their existing ap-
 plications. No sharing of data takes place, but the ALL-IN-1 IOS sys-
 tem is fully functional.

 Note: Co-existent systems cannot be merged. The ALL-IN-1 Installation
 Guide describes the proper procedure for transferring customizations.

                                 17

 

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.07-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 For more information on additional service offerings, refer to the Sys-
 tem Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.07-x).

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.07-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  OpenVMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX end-node is required

 o  VAX FMS
    (included with the ALL-IN-1 kit)

 Note: ALL-IN-1 and ALL-IN-1 STARTER cannot co-exist on the same sys-
 tem.

 COUNTRY COMPONENT SOFTWARE

 For information on country-specific modifications to this product, re-
 fer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.07-x).

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-AAA**-**
 Software Media: QA-AAA**-**
 Complete Documentation Kit: QA-AAA**-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-AAA**-**

 Additional Documentation

 ALL-IN-1/US Management Documentation:
    QA-AAAAB-GZ

                                 18

 

 ALL-IN-1/US AP&I Documentation Kit:
    QA-AAAAC-GZ

 ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server API Documentation Kit:
    Documentation Kit: QA-AAAAL-GZ

 ALL-IN-1 General User Documentation Kit:
    Documentation Kit: QA-AAAAM-GZ

 ALL-IN-1 Super User Documentation Kit:
    Documentation Kit: QA-AABAA-GZ

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use plus Personal Use basis.

 Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
 layered product.

 In addition, ALL-IN-1 provides a Personal Licensing Reporting Tool.
 System Managers and Administrators can easily recognize when the au-
 thorized (purchased) personal license limit has been reached or ex-
 ceeded.



                                 19

 

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility Manual of the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
 tem documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of services and options are available from Digital. For more
 information, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 

 ®  HP, DeskJet, and LaserJet are registered trademarks of Hewlett-
    Packard Corporation.

 ®  IBM and ProPrinter are registered trademarks of International
    Business Machines Corporation.

 ®  Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

 ®  PinWriter is a registered trademark of NEC Corporation.

 ®  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

 ®  Toshiba is a registered trademark of Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba.






                                 20

 


 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, ALL-IN-1, CDA, CI, CompacTape, DDIF,
    DEC, DECchart, DECdx, DECdx/RSTS, DEClaser, DECmate, DECnet,
    DECtrace, DECterm, DECwrite, DECserver, DECstation, DECwin-
    dows, DEC VTX, Digital, DTIF, DX, EDT, LA50, LA75, LA324,
    LN03, LN03 PLUS, LN03R, LQP02, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, PrintServer,
    RSTS, RSX, TOPS-20, TK, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXmate,
    VAX DATATRIEVE, VAX FMS, VAX Notes, VAX RALLY, VAX TEAMDATA,
    VAX VTX, VAXstation, VAXserver, VMS, VT 100, VT 220, VT 300, VT
    320, VT 330, VT 340, VT 420, WPS, and WPS-PLUS are trademarks
    of Digital Equipment Corporation.





























                                 21
