 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           ___________________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server   
                          SPD 25.B1.04 for VMS, Version 3.0

           DESCRIPTION

           ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office System (IOS) Server for VMS is a 
           customizable, menu-oriented software product that provides generic 
           office applications and a facility for integrating other business-
           oriented applications. ALL-IN-1 IOS unifies these applications 
           into an easy-to-use, menu-driven, information system, and provides 
           facilities to enable group-working and document sharing.

           Through ALL-IN-1 IOS electronic mail and links into Digital 
           Equipment Corporation's networking facilities, users can transport
           or receive information that has been created on desktop, 
           departmental, and corporate systems.

           ALL-IN-1 IOS consists of:

           o  ALL-IN-1 Office Applications

           o  VAX FMS (includes both FMS and Forms Language Translator)

           o  Message Router VMS Gateway (includes both the Message Router and
              the Gateway to VMS Personal Mail Utility)

           o  CDA Converter Library for VMS (required for use with CDA Support)

           o  ALL-IN-1 CDA Interoperability kit

           o  ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for VMS (rights to use only; media sold 
              separately)

           o  VAX Notes and ALL-IN-1/VAX Notes Interface
              (Group Conferencing)

                                         DIGITAL                September 1992
               
                                                                   AE-GF34J-TE

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           ALL-IN-1 IOS provides an environment in which users access applica-
           tions in a consistent manner. A user's documents are stored in the 
 	   File Cabinet where they are accessed from the office applications.

           The generic office applications are built upon the base system
	   facilities. These facilities are available when customizing or 
	   developing applications that are to be consistent with the ALL-IN-1 
           IOS environment.

           Office Applications:

           File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

           The ALL-IN-1 IOS File Cabinet is similar in function to a standard
           office filing cabinet - drawers consist of documents contained 
	   within folders. Folders are in alphabetical order and documents 
	   within the folders are in order by date and time of creation. The 
	   latest document is listed first, except for the INBOX where the 
	   latest document is listed last.

           All previously created folders are stored in the MAIN drawer, along
           with the messaging folders - INBOX, OUTBOX, CREATED, READ. Users can
           create other drawers, which can be shared or private.

           Document information (such as title, date created, document number,
           author, keywords, and type) is maintained in the File Cabinet. 
	   Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and manage the 
	   contents of the File Cabinet. The user can print or delete more 
	   than one document at a time. Selection of the documents can be made
	   with user-specified criteria.

           Documents (individual or by folder) can be re-filed, cross-filed, or
           duplicated. Information such as title and associated keywords can be
           changed. When a document has multiple cross-filings, only one copy 
	   of the document body is stored.

           Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket until the 
	   Wastebasket is emptied.



                                            2

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of documents or con-
           tents of the user's screen can be temporarily placed. Contents of 
 	   the scratch pad can be inserted into a document, edited, printed, 
	   mailed, or read.

           The File Cabinet provides access to documents through a common mech-
           anism regardless of the format of the documents. Support is provided
           as standard for ASCII, DX, and WPS-PLUS formats.

           ALL-IN-1 IOS provides a feature that allows the user and system man-
           ager to archive/restore any ALL-IN-1 document from the shared areas
           or from a user's File Cabinet.

           o  Shared Filing

              Users can create shared drawers to allow other users to read and
              edit shared documents. Access controls are provided so that the 
	      drawer owner can specify which users are allowed to access a 
	      drawer and the operations they are allowed to perform in it. 
	      Concurrency control ensures that certain actions are prohibited
	      while a user is modifying a shared document. For example, while
	      a user is editing a shared document, other users attempting to 
	      edit that document will be informed the document is in use and 
	      who is editing the document.

              Shared Filing links all users' File Cabinets on a system or 
	      across systems via the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option. 
	      Refer to the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option Software 
	      Product Description (SPD 36.79.xx).

           o  Group Services

              Users can define a set of users as a group. Multiple groups can 
	      be defined. Groups can be assigned access privileges to shared 
	      documents or drawers. Members can be added or deleted from a 
	      group and associated access rights are automatically assigned 
	      or removed.

           o  SFCP Migration

              A utility program converts SFCP File Cabinets into shared 
	      drawers. Each of the resultant shared drawers is added to the 
	      File Cabinet of those users who have been granted access. The 
	      user's access rights are preserved.

                                            3

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           Electronic Messaging

           The Electronic Messaging application provides a means of exchanging
           messages with other users. The user can create, edit, print, delete,
           read, and send messages. The message header (which contains 
	   addressee(s), subject, and mail classification) and the text of the
	   message can be edited.

           When creating a message, the user specifies the addressee(s) to whom
           the message is to be sent and, optionally, any addressee(s) to 
	   receive copies of the message. To save time with addressing, the 
	   user can create distribution lists or nicknames (seen only by the 
	   user).

           Incoming messages can be forwarded and/or answered. Answers can be 
	   directed to the sender only, or to all the recipients of the 
	   message. Confirmation that the addressee(s) has received and/or 
	   read the message can be requested. Priority for delivery of the 
	   message can be assigned as Express, First Class, or Second Class. 
	   The user can specify the sending of a message be deferred to a time
	   chosen by the user.

           Messages appear and are treated as documents to the user. ALL-IN-1 
	   IOS maintains folders for incoming, read, created, and sent 
	   messages. Once a message is sent, one copy of that message is 
	   shared (per system or cluster) by the sender and receiver(s) and 
	   cannot be edited. Messages can be re-filed and cross-filed in the 
	   user's file cabinet. Documents already in the file cabinet can be 
	   sent to other users.

           The user can choose to have all incoming messages automatically for-
           warded to another user. Alternatively, the user can create a reply 
	   message that is sent in response to all incoming mail (for example,
	   "I am out of the office until. . . .").

           Shared Filing within Electronic Messaging ensures that UI operations
           behave correctly in shared and distributed environments. Mail Oper-
           ations always take place in the user's MAIN drawer, whatever the 
	   previous context.





                                            4

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           An index of attachments to a message can be displayed and a set of
           options is provided for printing or reading individual attachments.
	   Attachments can be filed as revisable text or as messages which can
	   be answered or forwarded.

           The Set Mail User (SMU) Option allows a user to perform mail opera-
           tions on behalf of another user, such as a secretary for a manager.
           The Grant Mail Access (GMA) Option lets users specify other users 
	   who may process their mail. The mail header displays both users' 
	   names when a mail message is sent.

           Addressing enhancements include user interface improvements; the 
	   ability to create a distribution list using the list of addresses 
	   from a received Message Header; and improved nickname support - 
	   longer nick-names, easier manipulation of the long mail addresses 
	   common on messages sent or received via gateways to other mail 
	   systems, and the ability to create a nickname from the sender of
	   a message.

           Exchange of messages with ALL-IN-1 IOS users on other systems in a
	   DECnet network is provided by Message Router for VMS. Message 
	   Router VMSmail Gateway allows ALL-IN-1 users to exchange messages 
	   with users of the VMS Personal Mail Utility. Refer to the Message 
	   Router for VMS Software Product Description (SPD 26.33.xx).

           Document Processing

           The Document Processing application enables users to create, edit, 
	   print, delete, and read documents. The editor used is dependent 
	   upon the user's preference indicated in the User Profile. ALL-IN-1 
	   IOS users have a choice of editing styles: EDT, TPU, WPS, and 
	   WPS-PLUS.

           EDT, TPU, and WPS are ASCII editors. EDT and TPU use keying conven-
           tions and terminology oriented toward the more technical user. WPS
	   uses keying conventions and terminology that make it a subset of 
	   WPS-PLUS. WPS is available to users who have a word processing 
	   orientation but desire ASCII output.





                                            5

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           The optionally installable WPS-PLUS for ALL-IN-1 IOS is Digital's 
	   full function word processor. This version significantly expands
	   the capabilities of WPS-PLUS by providing true proportional spacing,
	   font selection, support for PostScript[R] output, a new multi-
	   column editor (up to 25 Left/Right margins within a ruler), the 
	   ability to create and/or edit up to 10 documents at one time. User 
	   Enhancements include a more versatile status line, "Start" and 
	   "End" Control Blocks inserted together with a single keystroke, and
	    many more.

           Highlights of WPS-PLUS are:

           o  Insert or Overstrike Mode.

           o  User control of margins and tabs, including left-justified, 
	      right-justified, and decimal-aligned tabs.

           o  Automatic Centering, Underlining, Bolding, Double Underscoring,
	      Change Bars, and Redlining.

           o  Technical Characters and Scientific Equations editing.

           o  Support for Wide Documents, up to 256 characters.

           o  Numbered Footnotes, Paragraph Numbering to nine levels, Automatic
              Table of Contents generation, Table of Authorities, and Word In-
              dexing.

           o  Widow/Orphan control and No-break Blocks.

           o  Column Cut and Paste.

           o  List Processing and Sort to produce form letters and maintain 
	      mailing lists - background processing is supported.

           o  Abbreviation and Library documents.

           o  Two-dimensional Editor for creation of diagrams and equations.



                                            6

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           Time Management

           Time Management offers the facility to maintain a personal calendar
           of events and tasks. An ``Events at a Glance'' screen gives the user
           an editable picture of the day's events, which makes it easy to make
           changes. Likewise, the ``Tasks at a Glance'' screen gives the user 
	   an editable picture of the tasks for the day. These pictures are 
	   combined on an ``Events and Tasks'' screen where other Time 
	   Management operations can be performed.

           Users can tailor Time Management and display only the screens and 
	   options that are of interest to them.

           Users can schedule, reschedule, or cancel an event. In an event in-
           volving other attendees, Time Management uses the Electronic Messag-
           ing application to deliver meeting notifications and confirmations.
           Users can also reserve unavailable time on their calendars. An entry
           in the user's calendar can be marked confidential and other users 
	   cannot read the description of the entry. Recurring events can be 
	   scheduled whereby an attendee's "Yes" reply schedules all 
	   occurrences of the meeting on the calendar.

           Time Management has the ability to perform a multinode scan. This 
	   scan will return a graph of potential attendees' free time prior to
	   the scheduling of the meeting. It will scan both local and off-node
	   calendars in real time.

           The Tasks facility is provided to track reminders, to-do lists, 
	   action items, and so forth. Tasks are not necessarily tied to a 
	   specific day or time of day. Tasks can be viewed by selection 
	   criteria such as: open versus closed, a range of beginning dates, 
	   deadlines, and so forth.

           Group Conferencing

           An ALL-IN-1 IOS user interface has been applied to Digital's VAX 
	   Notes application to provide the Group Conferencing feature.

           This feature gives users the ability to communicate on a many-to-
	   many basis while taking advantage of ALL-IN-1's ease of use. 
	   Application developers can benefit from VAX Notes being integrated 
	   at the API level in developing business or professional-specific 
	   applications that can use this conferencing capability.

                                            7

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Support

           ALL-IN-1 IOS provides support for the following new data types:

           o  DDIF - the standard CDA encoding format

           o  DOTS - the format for packing and transferring composite CDA 
	      documents

           o  DTIF - the CDA encoding format for tables

           o  PS - the final form PostScript document format

           Users will be able to send and receive these document types in mail,
           store them in their filing cabinet, read, print, copy, and convert
	   them.

           ALL-IN-1 IOS allows the datatypes to be read, with the exception of
           PostScript. The quality of formatting of the displayed data depends
           on the CDA facilities provided by the underlying VMS system. 
	   ALL-IN-1 IOS uses the CDA character cell formatter, which gives 
	   improved results with correct formatting and the inclusion of 
	   externally referenced files.

           ALL-IN-1 IOS will attempt to print CDA documents in PostScript if 
	   the destination printer is capable of it; otherwise, ALL-IN-1 IOS 
	   will convert the document to ASCII text before printing.

           The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to/from the new
           datatypes.

           If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a standard editor,
           the normal handling will result in a message telling the user that
	   the document format is not supported by the editor. However, the
	   user can convert a CDA document into a suitable format for editing
	   and then use the appropriate editor. Through conversion, there is a
	   potential for formatting attributes to be lost.

           CDA Base Services supports the ALL-IN-1 IOS File Cabinet, thus 
	   allowing documents live-linked by any CDA application. Users will 
	   also be able to unpack composite documents into the File Cabinet.

                                            8

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           Application programmers will have access to the CDA tools through 
	   the provision of API functions.

           Communications

           The Communications application enables users to access other 
	   computer systems without needing to understand anything about 
	   communication technology.

           For more knowledgeable users, entire communications sessions can be
           automated through the use of Control Documents (Control Documents 
	   are standard ALL-IN-1 documents that contain a set of special
	   commands). Connection to other computer systems is fully automated
	   if autodial modems or hardwired connections are permitted. The
	   connection is by means of a VMS terminal port (RS232 type) and can
	   be connected to any computer system supporting such terminal types.

           Facilities are also provided to transfer files to and from a DECmate
           II, DECmate III, VMS, and in or out of the user's file cabinet.

           Desk Calculator

           The Desk Calculator enables the user to perform interactive calcula-
           tions and include the results in documents. Desk Calculator operates
           in two modes: Calculator and Formula. Formula mode is used for com-
           plicated formulas that combine trigonometric and arithmetic 
	   functions. Calculator Mode is used for simple arithmetic 
	   computations. The alternate keypad is operated the same way as a
	   standard calculator.

           Directories

           The Directories subsystem provides access and maintenance to direc-
           tories available to the user. The user can view a directory, 
	   maintained by the system manager, that contains telephone numbers 
	   and addresses. A directory of all the ALL-IN-1 IOS users can also
	   be viewed.

           Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and view a personal
           telephone directory, nicknames, and distribution lists.



                                            9

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           With the installation of Distributed Directory Service, ALL-IN-1 IOS
           provides the user with the ability to perform mail directory 
	   searches on defined criteria such as name, department, location, 
	   and organization.


           System-wide Features

           Menu Navigation

           Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus. Experienced
           users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

           The user can interrupt their current activity to read a new mail 
	   message, display the current time, or to access Time Management, 
	   Directories, Desk Calculator, and Scratch Pad.

           Users familiar with VMS commands can have direct access to the com-
           mands without leaving ALL-IN-1 IOS.

           Two styles of user interface are provided. One interface uses menus
           similar to other ALL-IN-1 applications and the other interface 
	   (hardcopy mode) is utilized, for efficiency, mainly over dial-up 
	   lines. This mode does not display the full screen menu but displays
	   the menu in a strip form.

           Help

           Users can invoke Help for any part of ALL-IN-1 IOS by pressing the
	   HELP key. The HELP facility provides basic information on the
	   function in question without the user having to reference the
	   documentation.

           On-line Training

           Users can learn how to use the system using the on-line Training fa-
           cilities. Training leads the user through sets of interactive 
	   screens and explains how the various features of ALL-IN-1 IOS work.
	   A New Features module is provided to aid experienced ALL-IN-1 IOS 
	   users.


                                            10

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           User-Defined Processes

           User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated key 
	   sequences. There is no limit to the number of UDPs or the number of
	   keystrokes that can be stored in a UDP. One UDP can invoke another
	   UDP.

           Document Handling

           Document Reservation allows each user exclusive use of a document 
	   while editing.

           The Document handling model makes a clear distinction between revis-
           able and final form documents. The model provides clear separation 
	   of formatting and printing, so that formatting of documents can be
	   performed separately from printing.

           The background formatter provides CDA formatting, which enables CDA
           formatting to be performed in both foreground and background.

           Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports the 
	   document's final form. If the destination does not support the 
	   final form, then, where possible, the document is converted to 
	   a format that is supported, or the user will be advised to print 
	   to a different printer.

           Printing

           The Printing facility provides the user the ability to specify where
           a document is to be printed, the number of copies, and the output 
	   format. The output can be directed to any of the printers available
	   to the ALL-IN-1 IOS user, another document, or to the user's 
	   terminal. Documents that specify Runoff handling are automatically
	   processed by Digital Standard Runoff (DSR) before output. Printing
	   is handled in the background, freeing the terminal for other 
	   actions when interaction with the print formatter is not needed.

           Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports the
	   document's final form format.

           Print and LPS print options (LPS20 and LPS40) can be specified dur-
           ing a print operation. System-defined and user-defined print styles
           can be utilized for improved ease-of-use. Throughput of jobs during
           a multiple print operation has been improved.

                                            11

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           Job Services

           ALL-IN-1 IOS provides users the ability to perform operations on 
	   their jobs in print, batch, and server queues. Using the multiple
	   select indexing capability, users can get information on jobs, 
	   delete jobs, edit their attributes, and restart currently executing
	   jobs.

           Management of queues and jobs can be performed within ALL-IN-1 IOS.
           Managers can assign one or more users to manage specific local 
	   queues.

           Profile

           Each ALL-IN-1 IOS user has a user profile that contains information
           pertaining to the user.

           The user can access and modify part of their user profile including
           full name, address, telephone number, department, and title. In ad-
           dition, user preference information (such as work week and working
	   hours, editing style, mail notification, and read receipt handling)
	   can be modified.

           The System Manager maintains information such as user privileges,
 	   default directory, and form library access.

           Index Select

           A user can create an index selection list by selecting or deselect-
           ing objects from the index. Operations (such as print, delete,
	   cross-file, and so forth) can be performed on the list as if they
	   were a single entity. An index menu lists the options available to
	   the current selected index. Within an index, a user can scroll
	   either forward or backward.

           International Support

           ALL-IN-1 IOS is designed to support multi-lingual operations. This
	   support is subject to availability of the specific translation 
	   (refer to the System Support Addendum SSA 25.B1.xx-x). ALL-IN-1 IOS
	   can be deployed in a multi-lingual network and can support multi-
	   lingual operations on a single system. However, all language kits,
	   including U.S. English, must be the same version.

                                            12

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           System Management

           The System Management utilities are used to perform routine mainte-
           nance of ALL-IN-1 IOS, such as scheduling and rescheduling of house-
           keeping procedures, management of printers, direct maintenance of 
	   network and DDS profiles, metering, and quota management of the 
	   shared area. A system manager has the option of creating a non-VMS
	   privileged system administrator for the purpose of administering
	   the management of the following: user accounts (create, delete,
	   move, rename), document archiving, system distribution lists,
	   scheduling of housekeeping tasks, monitoring of ALL-IN-1 exception
	   and information reports, and the initiation of ALL-IN-1 shutdown.

           ALL-IN-1 IOS supplies a metering facility that provides system man-
           agers the ability to collect resource usage within ALL-IN-1 IOS ses-
           sions for predefined events. Application developers can define and
	   create their own additional meters. Meters will record the number
	   of times a meter is called, CPU usage, Direct I/O, Buffered I/O and
	   Page Faults. Metered events can also be collected by DECtrace, if
  	   it is installed on the system. This provides facilities for 
	   managing and reporting the information collected.

           Customization and Application Development

           ALL-IN-1 IOS is a form-driven system that uses the VAX FMS (Forms
	   Management System). For more information on VAX FMS, refer to the
	   Software Product Description (SPD 26.10.xx).

           In conjunction with VAX FMS and VAX FMS Form Language Translator, 
	   the ALL-IN-1 Application Development utilities allow changes to be
	   made to the ALL-IN-1 system. ALL-IN-1 IOS can be altered to fit
	   customerspecific requirements and provides a platform for 
	   application development and integration. ALL-IN-1 IOS provides a 
	   programming interface to common functions and mechanisms to pass 
	   control from one application or function to another (i.e., Flow 
	   Control). These functions have been enhanced in ALL-IN-1 IOS.

           Customization Management provides support for additional element 
	   types. All customizable element types that ship with ALL-IN-1 IOS 
	   are supported, as well as support for customer's own element types.

                                            13

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           Installing and managing customizations to applications is supported
           through the introduction of application areas. Support for customized
           corporate systems is provided through the use of application areas.
           In addition, transferring customizations and applications from one
	   system to another is also supported.

           Context sensitive menu options are available, which allow the display
           and choice of only those menu options relevant to a particular ele-
           ment type.

           Customization management provides enhanced features for the program-
           mer and manager. This includes improved reporting, notifying the man-
           ager pending request, and request completion notifications. ALL-IN-1
           IOS also introduces the concept of Application Maintainer, so that
           the ALL-IN-1 System Manager does not have to be solely responsible
  	   for the management of new or modified applications.

           The features within Customization Management allow system managers
	   and application programmers to modify their standard ALL-IN-1 
	   system in a controlled and disciplined manner. It provides the
	   ability to create, modify, index, and control customizations as
	   well as providing a modification history record for each 
	   customization.

           PC Server for ALL-IN-1 Clients

           ALL-IN-1 IOS provides server support for PCs by implementing client
           /server technology. The license for ALL-IN-1 IOS allows usage of the
           ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for VMS. The Media Kit must be ordered sep-
           arately. For more details on the capabilities of the server and 
	   available clients, refer to the ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for VMS 
	   Software Product Description (SPD 31.71.xx).

           IBM[R] 3270 Terminal Support

           ALL-IN-1 IOS can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards on CUT
           mode terminals that are supported using the CMX04 option card in a
	   DECserver 550:

           o  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

           o  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

                                            14

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           o  102 Key Typewriter

           o  87 Key Typewriter

           Documentation

           The following documentation is standard with ALL-IN-1 IOS:

           o  Read Me First

           o  System Management Documentation:

              -  Release Notes (on-line)

              -  ALL-IN-1 Installation Guide

              -  Differences from ALL-IN-1 V2.4 (on-line, part of the Conflict
                 Checking and Resolution Tool (CART))

              -  Management Guide

              -  Mail Management Guide

              -  CDA Converter Library Documentation

              -  Message Router Documentation

              -  VMSmail Gateway Documentation

              -  VAX FMS V2.4 Installation Guide

              -  VAX Notes Installation Guide

           o  Application Development Reference Guides:

              -  Application Programming: Getting Started

              -  Application Programming: Guide

              -  Application Programming: Using Customization Management

              -  Application Programming: Reference Volume 1, 2

              -  Application Programming: FMS Reference

              -  Application Programming: User Interface Standards

              -  Application Programming: Mini Reference

                                            15

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

              -  Application Programming: Index

           o  General User Documentation:

              -  ALL-IN-1 Minihåndbok

              -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Minihåndbok

           o  Super User Documentation:

              -  ALL-IN-1 Brukerhåndbok

              -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Brukerhåndbok

              -  ALL-IN-1 Administration Guide

              -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Printer Characteristics

              -  Tastaturoversikter

           Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased separately.

           SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

           In order to facilitate customization of ALL-IN-1 IOS, several source
           code modules are provided on all available distribution media for
	   this product. This source code is provided without any warranty of
	   any kind, either express or implied.

           Note: VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language is required if .B32, 
	   .BLI, or .REQ modules are to be used in customizing ALL-IN-1 IOS.
	   VAX BLISS-32 is not a prerequisite for the construction of site-
	   defined functions.

           INSTALLATION

           Only customers with experience in managing VMS and ALL-IN-1 should
	   attempt installation of this product. Digital recommends that all
	   other customers purchase Digital's Installation Services. These
	   services provide for installation of the software product by an 
	   experienced Digital Software Specialist.


                                            16

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           The CART (Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool)

           This tool is included as part of the installation procedures, but
	   should be run prior to the upgrade to ALL-IN-1 IOS. It examines the
	   customizations on the existing system and signals what changes are
	   required to migrate applications and customizations. It contains a
	   number of procedures which check for changed messages, mandatory
	   changes, and a checklist generated from the Differences document.
	   An option allows the Differences document to be printed prior to an
	   upgrade to ALL-IN-1 IOS.

           Co-existent Systems

           This facility allows the installation of ALL-IN-1 IOS on a system 
	   already running either ALL-IN-1 V2.3 or V2.4. It allows customers
	   to evaluate new functionality and to plan the migration of their
	   existing applications. No sharing of data takes place, but the 
	   ALL-IN-1 IOS system is fully functional.

           Note: Co-existent systems cannot be merged. The ALL-IN-1 Installation
           Guide describes the proper procedure for transferring customizations.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.B1.xx-x) for availabil-
           ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
           Support Addendum (SSA 25.B1.xx-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  DECnet-VAX end-node is required

           Note: ALL-IN-1 and ALL-IN-1 STARTER cannot co-exist on the same sys-
           tem.






                                            17

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           COUNTRY COMPONENT SOFTWARE

           For information on country-specific modifications to this product,
	   refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.B1.xx-x).

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-AAAN*-**
           Software Media: QA-AAANA-H*
           Complete Documentation Kit: QA-AAANA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-AAAN*-**

           Additional Documentation

           ALL-IN-1 General User Documentation Kit:
              QA-AAANM-GZ

           ALL-IN-1 Super User Documentation Kit:
              QA-AABNA-GZ

           ALL-IN-1/US Management Documentation:
              QA-AAAAB-GZ

           ALL-IN-1/US AP&I Documentation Kit:
              QA-AAAAC-GZ

           ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server API Documentation Kit:
              QA-AAAAL-GZ

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available
	      licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price
	      book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
           Equipment's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information 
	   about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local 
	   Digital office.


                                            18

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           License Management Facility Support:

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
           Use plus Personal Use basis.

           Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use 
	   the layered product.

           In addition, ALL-IN-1 provides a Personal Licensing Reporting Tool.
           System Managers and Administrators can easily recognize when the au-
           thorized (purchased) personal license limit has been reached or ex-
           ceeded.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
           VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
           the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System
	   documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies,
	   contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of services and options are available from Digital. For
	   more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the
	   purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software
	   Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R] PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

           [R] IBM and ProPrinter are registered trademarks of International
               Business Machines Corporation.

           [R] Toshiba is a registered trademark of Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba.



                                            19

 



           ALL-IN-1/NORSK Integrated Office System Server        SPD 25.B1.04
           for VMS, Version 3.0


           [R] HP, DeskJet, and LaserJet are registered trademarks of Hewlett-
               Packard Corporation.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, ALL-IN-1, CDA, CI, CompacTape, DEC,
               DECchart, DECdx, DECdx/RSTS, DEClaser, DECmate, DECnet, DEC-
               page, DECnet-VAX, DECtrace, DECtalk, DECterm, DECwrite,
               DECserver, DECstation, DECwindows, DDIF, DX, EDT, LA50,
               LA75, LJ250, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LN03R, LQP02, LQP03, MicroVAX,
               PrintServer, Professional, Rainbow, RSX, TOPS-20, TK, VAX, VAX-
               cluster, VAXft, VAXmate, VAX DATATRIEVE, VAX FMS, VAX Notes,
               VAX RALLY, VAX TEAMDATA, VAX VTX, VAXstation, VAXserver, VMS,
               VT, WPS, and WPS-PLUS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Cor-
               poration.



























                                            20
