 


                              DIGITAL

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  VAX TDMS (Terminal Data Management System), Version 1.9B
SPD 25.71.16

DESCRIPTION

VAX[TM] Terminal Data Management System (TDMS) is a product designed
for the implementation of interactive, forms-intensive applications
running on OpenVMS[TM] VAX systems. As a terminal subsystem, VAX TDMS
can reduce the application development and maintenance effort by 
replacing application program logic specific to terminal interactions
with definitions that are external to the program. VAX TDMS is Year
2000 ready for applications that conform to the interpretation of 2
digit year dates as described in the release notes.

VAX TDMS provides the following features:

o  A Screen Editor to define forms that format data on the terminal.

o  A nonprocedural language to define the exchange of data between an
   application program and its associated terminal. These predefined
   exchanges are called requests and are external to the program.

o  Utilities that enable the creation, modification, and storage of
   form definitions and request definitions.

o  A record level programming interface which the application program
   uses to invoke the predefined requests. The application program calls
   the program interface, passing it the request name and the program
   record buffers used in the exchange of data with the terminal.

o  A sliding window algorithm through which the behavior of TDMS can
   be modified to control how 2 digit year dates are translated.

                                                      February 1998

                                                        AE-P785Q-TE

 

VAX TDMS applications range from database inquiry/response/update to
real-time uses such as the periodic display of an industrial process.
VAX TDMS is typically used as a terminal subsystem in terminal data
management applications such as order entry, inventory control, 
distribution and other form-intensive applications. VAX TDMS not only
increases application development and maintenance productivity by 
providing a separation of terminal management code from application code,
but it also promotes end user productivity by providing such features
as:

o  Vertical Field Traversal. Keys can be defined for rapidly travers-
   ing forms vertically rather than traversing the form on a field by
   field basis in the pre-defined field visitation order.

o  Immediate access to the first field and last field. Keys can be 
   defined for immediately moving the cursor to the first field and the
   last field on the form.

o  The key function associated with a key can be changed and additional
   keys can be defined to have other functions. This allows keyboards
   to be redefined to match the environment of the end user.

VAX TDMS is a fully integrated member of the VAX Information 
Architecture.

o  All VAX TDMS definitions are stored in the Oracle Common Data 
   Dictionary/Repository (CDD/Repository). Additionally, VAX TDMS can use
   record definitions stored in the Oracle CDD/Repository by DIGITAL
   DATATRIEVE, Oracle CODASYL DBMS, or Oracle Rdb/VMS. VAX TDMS 
   provides full support for Oracle CDD/Repository Dictionary Management
   Utility (DMU) format definitions and read-only support for Common
   Dictionary Operator (CDO) definitions.

o  VAX TDMS is the standard, integrated terminal manager for VAX ACMS-
   based applications.

o  DIGITAL DATATRIEVE can use VAX TDMS forms to DISPLAY/READ data.



                                 2

 

o  VAX TDMS supports editing with the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor
   from within the Request Definition Utility (RDU). This editor 
   provides templates that help application developers remember RDU 
   syntax as they develop request definitions.

There are four major steps involved in the implementation of a VAX TDMS
application. These are:

1. Defining the Request

A request defines what information is displayed at the terminal and
what information is collected from the terminal. The VAX TDMS request
replaces code that would otherwise have to be designed, written, and
debugged in the application program.

The request identifies the form and the record definitions to be used
in the exchange of data with the terminal. INPUT and OUTPUT statements
define the mapping between the form fields and the record fields 
during execution of the request.

2. Defining the Form

A form definition describes the format of the data that is displayed
on the terminal at run time. The form definition also specifies, for
each field, what validation procedures are invoked. VAX TDMS field 
validation includes range checks, list checks and picture validations.

3. Defining the Record

Data records that are used in a request and VAX TDMS application 
program must be defined in the Oracle CDD/Repository. The record defi-
nition specifies the type, structure and length of the record that is
created by Oracle CDD/Repository, DIGITAL DATATRIEVE, Oracle CODASYL
DBMS, or Oracle Rdb/VMS. During the execution of a request, VAX TDMS
performs the necessary data type conversion required to transfer data
between the form and the record.

4. The Application Program


                                 3

 

A VAX TDMS application program performs application-specific process-
ing and controls the flow of information between the terminal and the
database. The application communicates at a record level with the 
terminal by calling VAX TDMS to execute requests and it communicates with
the database using the subsystem of choice - VAX RMS, DIGITAL 
DATATRIEVE, Oracle CODASYL DBMS, or Oracle Rdb/VMS.

Applications can be written in any VAX native mode language that ad-
heres to the VAX Procedure Calling and Condition Handling standard.
Many languages are able to copy record definitions from the Oracle CDD/
Repository at compile time. If the application program is written in
one of these languages, then it and the VAX TDMS request can share
record definitions in the Oracle CDD/Repository. VAX TDMS applications
written in languages that do not support such copying must include the
record definitions in the application program itself as well as in the Oracle
CDD/Repository.

Components

VAX TDMS is comprised of three major components:

1. The Form Definition Utility

The VAX TDMS Form Definition Utility (FDU) provides all of the 
capabilities needed to create or modify form definitions and store them
in the Oracle CDD/Repository. The VAX TDMS FDU includes a Screen 
Editor that is used to create a screen image of the form and assign 
specific attributes. These include form field video attributes, form field
validation procedures, and the order in which the input fields should
be processed.

2. The Request Definition Utility

The VAX TDMS RDU provides all of the capabilities needed to create and
modify requests and store them in the Oracle CDD/Repository. RDU 
validates each request to make sure that form and record definitions 
exist and that all transfers of data between form and record fields are
valid. The RDU also builds Request Library Files that the VAX TDMS run-
time system accesses during the execution of requests.

                                 4

 

The request library capability is provided to avoid run-time access
to the Oracle CDD/Repository and thus improve VAX TDMS application 
performance.

3. Programming Call Interface

An application program uses the VAX TDMS programming interface to 
execute a VAX TDMS request. A request defines an exchange of data 
between the program and its associated terminal. The application 
program calls the program interface and passes to the program interface
the request name and the program record buffers to be used in the 
exchange of data with the terminal. This record level interface thus 
eliminates the need for character level or field level communication with
the terminal.

The Programming Call Interface allows application programs to perform
additional operations including writing text to or reading text from
the reserved message line on a terminal, enabling or disabling a 
facility that traces the action of a request, and canceling a request
in progress.

The Programming Call Interface supports both synchronous and asynchronous
calls from the application program.

Optional Run-time System

An optional run-time version of VAX TDMS is available. The run-time
system allows the execution of applications using VAX TDMS for 
terminal display and management on a machine other than the one used to
develop the application.

Documentation

The VAX TDMS documentation set consists of:

o  Forms Manual

o  Request and Programming Manual

o  Reference Manual

                                 5

 

o  Pocket Guide

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX TDMS Version 1.9B is supported on all VAX hardware configurations
referenced in the OpenVMS Operating System for Alpha and VAX, Version
7.1, Software Product Description.

Processors Not Supported

MicroVAX I
VAXstation I and VAXstation 8000
VAX-11/725 and VAX-11/782

Processor Restrictions

A TK50 tape drive is required for standalone MicroVAX 2000 and 
VAXstation 2000 systems.

Terminals

PC100[1]           PC278[1]
PC325[1]           PC350[1]
VT52[2]            VT100
VT100 W/AVO        VT101
VT102              VT125
VT131[1]           VT220
VT240              VT241
VT320[3]           VT330[3]
VT340[3]

1. Supported in VT102 mode only.

2. VT52 for application execution only. Run-time support for the VT52
   is generally the same as for the VT100. When a VT100-specific 
   feature is requested in a form definition, the feature will either be
   simulated or ignored when the form is displayed on a VT52. Wide forms
   (132 columns) and forms using scrolled areas cannot be displayed
   on a VT52.

                                 6

 

3. VAX TDMS does not support the use of the 25th status line nor the
   use of the locator device on VT300-series terminals.

Terminal Emulators

Terminal emulators on VAXstations and personal computers are supported
only to the extent that the emulator conforms to the VT100, VT220, or
VT320 environment it is emulating.

Printers

VAX TDMS forms can be printed on any DIGITAL printer. Video attributes
are not printed and lines are drawn using the characters "-", "+", "|"
rather than the line-drawing character set.

OTHER HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1):

Full Development System:
Disk space required for      12,000 blocks
installation:
                             (6,144K bytes)

Disk space required for
use (permanent):
With Samples                 5,000 blocks
                             (2,560K bytes)

Without Samples              2,500 blocks
                             (1,280K bytes)

Run-time System:
Disk space required for      3,000 blocks
installation:
                             (1,536K bytes)




                                 7

 


Disk space required for      500 blocks
use (permanent):
                             (256K bytes)

These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximations; actual sizes may vary depending on your 
system environment, configuration and software options selected.

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
and licensed VAXcluster[*] configuration without restrictions. The 
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS section of this Software Product Description details
any special hardware required by this product.

[*] V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster
Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet
and mixed Interconnect configurations.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

Operating System:

OpenVMS VAX Operating System V5.5-2; V6.2 and V7.1

Layered Products:

Oracle CDD/Repository V5.3 or higher

VMS Tailoring

For VMS V5.x systems, the following VMS classes are required for full
functionality of this layered product:

o  VMS Required Save Set

o  Network Support

o  Programming Support

                                 8

 

o  Utilities

For more information on VMS classes and tailoring, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

Certain versions of these products depend upon a specific version of
the Operating System.

o  DIGITAL ACMS V4.1 or higher

o  DIGITAL Datatrieve V6.1 - V7.2

o  VAX Language-Sensitive Editor/Source Code Analyzer V4.4 or higher

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version
of this product may be different from the requirements for the 
current version.

ORDERING INFORMATION

This product is available as part of the VMS Consolidated Software 
Distribution on CDROM.

OpenVMS VAX Operating System and Software Product Library: QA-VWJ8A-A8
Service subscription:QT-VWJ8A-C8

OpenVMS VAX Software Product Library : QA-5FW8A-H8
Service subscription:QT-5FW8A-C8

Full Development System

Software Licenses: QL-706A*-**
Software Media: QA-706A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-706AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-706A*-**

                                 9

 

Run-time System

Software Licenses: QL-711A*-**
Software Media: QA-711A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-711A*-**

*  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
   licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of the Stan-
dard Terms and Conditions of Digital Equipment Corporation. For more
information about the DIGITAL licensing terms and policies, contact
your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for both the Full Development System and the Run-time
System are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

A 90-day conformance to SPD warranty in accordance with the applica-
ble DIGITAL standard Terms and Conditions is provided by DIGITAL with
the purchase of a license.


                                10

 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY EXCLUSION

DIGITAL does not warrant that the software licensed to customers is
error free, that the software operates with any hardware and software
other than as specified in this SPD, that the software satisfies 
customers' own specific requirements, or that copies of the software other
than those provided or authorized by DIGITAL conform to the SPD.

TRADEMARK INFORMATION

[TM] The DIGITAL Logo, DIGITAL, OpenVMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation,
     VAXserver, VAX, and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment
     Corporation.

[R]  Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation.

All other trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their
respective holders.

The information in this version of this SPD is valid at the time of
its release. Please contact your local DIGITAL office for the most 
recent version of this SPD.

© Digital Equipment Corporation 1998. All rights reserved.
















                                11
