Software 
Product 
Description
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Product Name: DECwindows Motif/Hanyu for OpenVMS, Version 1.2     SPD 46.94.01

This Software Product Description describes the following two products:

·DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS VAX Version 1.2
·DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS AXP Version 1.2

DESCRIPTION

DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS V1.2 is the traditional Chinese version of
DECwindows Motif for  OpenVMS V1.2. When used in conjunction  with
OpenVMS/Hanyu, it extends the standard DECwindows Motif  for OpenVMS V1.2 to
provide internationalized windowing services for using and developing
internationalized  DECwindows applications.  It also extends the local language
capabilities to support Chinese character in put/output handling, to provide a 
Chinese language user interface, and to offer a Chinese language platform for 
developing Chinese DECwindows Motif applications.

DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS V1.2 supports Chinese data that conforms to
the CNS11643 character set standard of Taiwan with the EDPC extension area as
a standard option.  It also supports Big-5, DEC Hanyu & Taiwanese EUC
encoding.

This SPD describes only the internationalized and Chinese specific features
which are extensions or additions to  standard DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS. 
For a description of  the base functionalities of DECwindows Motif  for
OpenVMS, please refer to  Software Product Description (SPD 42.19.01).


INTERNATIONALIZATION FEATURES

Locale Switching

DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS V1.2 provides a platform for developing
locale-independent window ing applications.  Applications developed using the
technologies of X11R5 and OSF/Motif R1.2 toolkit can exhibit  different local
language behavior according to the locale setting.

DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS V1.2 is based on the XPG locale model. 
Users can switch the language  of an application by specifying the locale at
startup time.  This locale switching mechanism is also designed to be 
interoperable with other DECwindows Motif products, such as DEC OSF/1 and
ULTRIX Worksystem Software.

Motif Toolkit/UIL

Two Motif Toolkits are incorporated in DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS
V1.2.  They are based on  OSF/Motif R1.2 and OSF/Motif R1.1.3 respectively. 
The default Motif toolkit is based on OSF/Motif R1.2.  The OSF/Motif R1.1.3
toolkit is provided for backward compatibility.

The OSF/Motif R1.2 toolkit is fully integrated with X11R5 Xlib and Xt to
provide internationalization functionali ties such as locale-encoded string
supports and input methods.  Some of the X11R5 internationalization features 
can be invoked via the OSF/Motif R1.2 toolkit, such as input methods with
different interaction styles.



                                                                 April 1994
                                                                AE-PX4HB-TE
                                              DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION
                                                                ASIA REGION



OSF/Motif V1.2 Toolkit

The OSF/Motif V1.2 toolkit provides the capability of processing local
languages.  New features incorporated in  V1.2 include tear-off menus,
drag-and-drop supports, and internationalization.  The following widgets of the
Motif  Toolkit library provides internationalization character input/output
capabilities and local language message dis play:-

·Command Widget
·FileSelectionBox Widget
·Label Widget
·List Widget
·MessageBox Widget
·SelectionBox Widget
·RowColumn Widget
·Scale Widget
·BulletinBoard Widget
·Text Widget
·TextField Widget


DECwindows Extensions to Motif Toolkit

The DECwindows Extensions to Motif Toolkit library is enhanced for
internationalization with the X11R5 fea tures.  The following widgets of the
DECwindows Extensions to Motif Toolkit library provide internationalization 
character input/output capabilities and local language message display:-

·ColorMix widget
·CSText Widget
·Help Widget
·Print Widget
·Structured Visual Navigation (SVN) Widget


OSF/Motif R1.1.3

The OSF/Motif R1.1.3 toolkit are also provided for backward compatibility
reason.  All the applications  compiled  under previous releases of DECwindows
Motif can be executed without recompiling.

Programming Examples

To help programmers to develop internationalization DECwindows applications,
several programming examples  are provided:

1. Periodic - an example to illustrate Motif toolkit widgets. Local language
   text can be entered through XmText  widget.

2. ximdemo - an example to illustrate how to do low level programming with
   X11R5 internationalization func tions.

3. DECburger

4. HelloWorld


User Environment, Out-of-the-box Applications and Examples

All out-of-the-box (OOTB) applications and utilities (with the exception of
Notepad, DECwindows Mail which are  based on OSF/Motif R1.1.3) supported by
internationalized DECwindows Motif are based on OSF/Motif R1.2.


Input Server

Local language input methods have been implemented according to the X11R5 X
Input Method specification at the  Xlib layer. 

The input server can support applications developed on X11R4 Asian Input Method
(AIM) and X11R5 X Input  Method (XIM).

The X11R5 XIM specification defines the following interaction styles:

1. Root window - pre-edit data is displayed in a window in the input server

2. Off-the-spot - pre-edit data is displayed in a fixed location of the
   application window, usually right under the application window

3. Over-the-spot - pre-edit data is displayed in a child window of the
   application which is placed over the current insertion point

4. On-the-spot - the input method directs the application through callbacks to
   display the pre-edit data


X Library

·X Input Methods
·Text Drawing and Measuring Functions
·Inter-client communication
·X Resource Database


X Toolkit Intrinsics

This product incorporates X11R5 X Toolkit Intrinsics (Xt). R5 Xt has been
extended for internationalization to  provide a new convenient routine to
establish locale at initialization time.  The internationalization additions
also  define event filters as a part of the Xlib input method specifications.



CHINESE  LANGUAGE FEATURES

DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS V1.2 provides the following Chinese
processing features in addition to  the base and  internationalization
functionalities of DECwindows  Motif for OpenVMS V1.2. DECwindows Motif /Hanyu
for OpenVMS V1.2 provides a UDC font utility to create UDC fonts for UDC charac
ter display.

Localized CDA Viewer allows users to view DDIF (Digital Document Interchange
Format) files containing Chi nese text, graphics and images.


Chinese Input Methods

The following input methods are supported for the input of Chinese characters:
·Tsang-Chi
·Quick Tsang-Chi
·Phonetic
·Internal Code
·Phrase


Simplified Chinese/Traditional Chinese Conversion

To allow users to interchange data between simplified Chinese and traditional
Chinese, DECwindows Motif  /Hanyu for OpenVMS V1.2 provides support of simple
conversion between them:

·cut-and-paste of Chinese data can be handled properly according to the locale
 of the application window to which data is pasted

·text display using X11R5 text drawing functions supports display of
 traditional Chinese data with simplified  Chinese fonts, and vice versa

·traditional Chinese can be entered through a simplified Chinese input server,
 and vice versa That is, traditional Chinese can be entered using the following
 input methods:

·5-Shape

·5-Stroke

·Pinyin

·Quwei

·Telex-Code


HanyuDECterm

HanyuDECterm utility is the extended version of standard DECterm to  provide
terminal emulation of Chinese  terminals. Emulation of the  following Chinese
terminal is currently supported:

·VT382-D


User Environment

The following features in DECwindows Motif have been enhanced to accept input
of Chinese characters and/or  display of Chinese data:

·Login Extension
·Session Manager
·FileView
·Motif Window Manager
·LinkWorks Hyperinformation Services


Applications

The following applications in DECwindows Motif have been localized to support
Chinese input and/or display:

·Bookreader
·Clock
·Calculator
·Calendar
·Cardfiler
·Mail Utility
·Paint
·Puzzle
·CDA Viewer
·Motif Notepad


DECwindows Motif Examples

The following DECwindows Motif /Hanyu examples are bundled  in this release:

·DECburger
·HelloWorld
·Periodic - an example to illustrate Motif toolkit widgets.  Local language
 text can be entered through XmText widget.


Obsolete Features

DECwindows Motif /Hanyu for OpenVMS V1.2 does not include the following
features:

·XUI/Hanyu Toolkit
·XUI/Hanyu UIL Compiler
·XUI/Hanyu Window Manager
·XUI/Hanyu Server-Based Input Methods 



HARDWARE REQUIREMENT

Processors Supported:

Please refer to Software Product Description (SPD 42.19.01).

Memory Requirements:

For VAX Systems: 20 MB
For AXP Systems: 40 MB

More memory is recommended for better performance.

Disk space requirements for installation and use:

For VAX Systems: 30 MB
For AXP Systems: 80 MB



PREREQUISITE SOFTWARE

OpenVMS/Hanyu VAX Operating System V5.5-2 or above
OpenVMS/Hanyu AXP Operating System V1.5 or above
DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS V1.2


OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

For information on available optional software products, contact your local
Digital office.


SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital's Standard
Terms and Conditions of Sale. For  further information on Digital's licensing
terms and policies, contact your local Digital office.


SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. Contact your local
Digital Office for further information.


DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

For OpenVMS AXP Systems

·CD-ROM

For OpenVMS VAX Systems

·CD-ROM
·9-track 1600 BPI magtape
·TK50 streaming tape


ORDERING INFORMATION

For OpenVMS AXP Systems

System Licenses:  

·Traditional License: QL-MV43*-AA
· Personal License: QL-MV43*-2B

Media and Online Documentation: QA-03X8*-H8
(Full Software and Documentation Kit on CDROM)

Hardcopy Documentation:	QA-XA13*-GZ

Software Support Services: QT-MV43*-**
			   QT-XA13*-**

For OpenVMS VAX Systems

Software Licenses: QL-XA13*-**

Software Media:	QA-XA13*-H*

Media and Online Documentation: QA-VWJ8*-H*
(CDROM)

Hardcopy Documentation:	QA-XA13*-GZ

Software Support Services: QT-XA13*-**


* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

The above information is valid at the time of release. Please contact your
local Digital office for the most up-to- date information.


SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this Software Product is provided by Digital with the purchase of
a license for the product as defined  in the Software Warranty Addendum
attached to this SPD.  


