 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC Notes Version 2.5 for OpenVMS VAX Systems    SPD
 27.06.10

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX is a computer conferencing software prod-
 uct designed to provide users with the capability of creating and ac-
 cessing enterprisewide, on-line conferences or meetings. Computer con-
 ferencing is a proven, computer supported, electronic messaging tech-
 nology that lets users participate in open discussions with people in
 different locations and at different times. DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX
 helps save travel time and money because participants can join in a
 discussion from their own desks at a time of their own choice.

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX can be used for a variety of applications
 such as an electronic bulletin board, collaborative document author-
 ing and review, and internal classes or seminars. One major advantage
 of DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX is that the conference maintains a de-
 tailed record of the proceedings of a discussion. These records can
 later be searched by a variety of criteria, such as name of partic-
 ipant, subject, or keyword. DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX eliminates rein-
 vention of the wheel by providing a mechanism for sharing expert knowl-
 edge across the enterprise. In general, DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX en-
 hances the communication flow across the corporate hierarchy.

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX is implemented as a client/server applica-
 tion. The DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX clients can run in one of two ways.
 Users can be on either the DECwindows platform with easy access to func-
 tions through direct manipulation with a mouse in a window, or the char-
 acter cell terminal using a TPU interface. DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX
 servers run on OpenVMS VAX systems in either a standalone or networked
 environment.

                               DIGITAL                 December 1993

                                                         AE-GH97M-TE


 

 The DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX Full-function option allows the use of
 all the features described below. The one exception is the Personal
 Use license that allows all the features below except for access from
 remote clients. The DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX Client option allows all
 of the features described below with the exception of creation of con-
 ferences. The DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX for TeamLinks option allows
 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX server features to be accessed by TeamLinks
 PC Clients.

 Features

 Distributed Access

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX has been designed for optimal multinode ac-
 cess in a DECnet or TCP/IP network, using server technology to achieve
 rapid response - even from distant nodes. DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX
 conferences can exist on any DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX server node in
 a DECnet or TCP/IP network and can be accessed from any DEC Notes for
 OpenVMS VAX client, DEC Notes for OpenVMS AXP Client, Conferencing for
 Windows client or Conferencing for Macintosh client in a DECnet or TCP
 /IP network, thus offering true distributed processing capability. Users
 on remote nodes need not have an account on the node where the con-
 ference is located in order to participate in a discussion. DEC Notes
 for OpenVMS VAX may also be used on any single node OpenVMS VAX con-
 figuration. Conferences may exist on any node where the full-function
 server is installed in either standalone or networked environments.

 Moderator Support

 A moderator is a person responsible for managing a conference. DEC Notes
 for OpenVMS VAX allows both public and private conferences. For pri-
 vate conferences, the moderator can restrict access to a specific group
 of participants by specifying name and network location. Public con-
 ferences have no restrictions on who may participate. Moderators may
 send announcements of new conferences to participants, and have the
 ability to delete notes entered by other participants. Moderators may
 also create special notices which are displayed for all participants
 each time the conference is accessed.


                                  2


 

 Ease of Use

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX is designed with the inexperienced user in
 mind. All functions can be accessed by easy-to-use commands, supported
 with on-line, context-sensitive help. Documentation is designed to fa-
 miliarize new users with DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX quickly and eas-
 ily.

 Choice of Editor Interfaces

 The character-cell interface to DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX provides three
 separate screen-oriented user interfaces for editing, allowing users
 to specify use of EVE (an extensible interface), EDT-style keypad in-
 terface, or WPS-style GOLD KEY keypad interface on ANSI-compatible ter-
 minals.

 A line mode editor also is included in DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX for
 use on non-ANSI terminal devices.

 Users of the DECwindows interface can enter notes which contain graph-
 ics and text by including entire compound documents based on DDIF file
 format.

 Topics and Replies

 The structure of a DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX conference is simple -
 a topic followed by replies to that topic - so there is no difficult
 hierarchy to navigate. A conference may have more than 50,000 topics,
 and each topic may have a similar number of replies. Directory list-
 ings show all topics by author, title, date, and the number of replies
 posted to each topic. All notes can be read either sequentially or at
 random. Also, users have the option of reading only those notes which
 they have not yet seen. DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX allows the user to
 search for various topics and replies using the SEARCH, DIRECTORY, and
 KEYWORD commands.

 The DECwindows interface to DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX allows users to
 open multiple read windows per conference, as well as have multiple
 conferences open at one time.

 Notebook

                                  3


 

 The Notebook is a user's personal list of conferences of interest. Users
 may easily add or delete conferences from their Notebook. The Note-
 book allows users to define personal names for conferences and, in a
 distributed environment, allows remote conferences to be accessed with-
 out DECnet or TCP/IP node specifications. When a conference is accessed,
 the Notebook determines whether or not new notes have been made since
 the last time the user accessed the conference. The Notebook maintains
 an estimated count of these unseen notes. The Notebook also maintains
 a profile of user preferences, including personal name, editor choice,
 and default printer specification.

 Markers

 Markers are user-defined names pointing to relevant notes in a con-
 ference. Markers can be used whenever a user needs to have a special
 reminder of things to do, or to recall notes that are frequently ref-
 erenced.

 Keywords

 Keywords allow the user to group notes that are concerned with a par-
 ticular subject or do not have other attributes (such as title, au-
 thor, or time of entry) in common. Keywords are useful for grouping
 notes that may not have the keyword in the note text or title, but that
 do address the subject the keyword represents.

 Imported Text

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX allows notes and replies to be created out-
 side of DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX (using any editor which can produce
 ASCII output files) and then later imported to the conference.

 Mail Integration

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX uses the OpenVMS VAX mail facility (included
 in the OpenVMS VAX Operating System) to allow users to send notes or
 messages to other users from within DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX.

 DEClinks - formerly LinkWorks

                                  4


 

 DEClinks allows the user to create links between notes in a DEC Notes
 for OpenVMS VAX conference as well as links between notes and other
 applications which support DEClinks, such as the Open VMS VAX mail fa-
 cility. DEClinks is useful in establishing links between elements in
 different databases and also allows easy navigation along the paths
 established by the links. For more information regarding DEClinks, please
 refer to the DECwindows Motif[R] for OpenVMS VAX Software Product De-
 scription (SPD 36.09.xx).

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configuration as specified in the System Sup-
 port Addendum (SSA 27.06.10-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 For Workstations Running DECwindows:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.06.10-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX - Full-function

 Software Licenses: QL-960A*-**
 Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-960A*-**


                                  5


 

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX - Client Only

 Software Licenses: QL-VESA*-**
 Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VESA*-**

 DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX for TeamLinks

 Software Licenses: QL-006AA-2B
 Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-006A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the License Management Facility for Open-
 VMS VAX.

 License units for DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX Full-function option are
 allocated on an Unlimited System Use, Concurrent Use, and Personal Use
 basis. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time
 to use the layered product. The Personal Use license allows all func-
 tions except access by a remote client.

 License units for DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX Client option are allo-
 cated on an Unlimited System Use, Concurrent Use, and Personal Use ba-
 sis. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time


                                  6


 

 to use the layered product. Each Personal Use license allows one iden-
 tified individual to use the layered product.

 License units for DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX for TeamLinks option are
 allocated on a Personal Use basis. Each Personal Use license allows
 one identified TeamLinks node to access DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX server
 features. A separate DEC Notes for OpenVMS VAX Full-function license
 is not required when using this option.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
 ing System documentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 [R] Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, AXP, DDIF, DEC, DEC Notes, DECnet, DECwin-
    dows, Digital, EDT, DEClinks, OpenVMS, TeamLinks, VAX, and WPS
    are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

 ©1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All Rights Reserved.







                                  7
