

PRODUCT NAME: VAX CDD/Plus, Version 4.1                      SPD 25.53.17

DESCRIPTION

The VAX CDD/Plus is an active, distributed data dictionary system that 
provides a single logical repository for data definitions (metadata) and 
descriptions shared by VAX languages and tools and information management 
products.

VAX CDD/Plus provides a way to define and track metadata that is to be
used by more than one product and provides a mechanism for sharing,
relating and reporting on the dictionary contents.

The metadata in CDD/Plus keeps track of location, type, format, size,
change history, and usage of the actual data (which is stored and
maintained outside the data dictionary).  All changes to the metadata
are controlled by the dictionary.  This can provide better control of
the application development and dictionary administration processes.

With VAX CDD/Plus, dictionary users can:


  ^ Allow the sharing of field, record and other data definitions among
    various VAX languages and VAX information management products

  ^ Access definitions in multiple dictionaries
    (including those on other nodes.)                                       

  ^ Control the use of redundant and inconsistent definitions

  ^ Protect the dictionary against unauthorized access

  ^ Continue to use existing definitions set up with previous versions
    of VAX CDD

Utilities

VAX CDD/Plus supports metadata in two formats: metadata that users
manipulate with the Common Dictionary Operator (CDO) and metadata that
users manipulate with the Dictionary Management Utility (DMU).              
                                                                            

  ^ Common Dictionary Operator (CDO) 
  
    The CDO Utility is the primary user interface to VAX CDD/Plus, where 
    users can accomplish all of the data description, administration, and 
    dictionary management functions.  The CDO Utility supports the VMS 
    style of command entry.  A flexible menu-driven editor allows users to 
    create new field and record definitions, create new versions of previous 
    definitions and browse through the current definitions.

    VAX CDD/Plus dictionaries created in CDO can store not only 
    definitions, but also information about how the definitions are
    related.  A CDO dictionary is created on a system when VAX CDD/Plus
    is first installed.  Users can also read DMU dictionaries from CDO.

    ^ Dictionary Management Utility (DMU) 

      The DMU Utility allows the user to create and maintain existing 
      dictionaries established with previous versions of VAX CDD.  VAX CDD/Plus 
      continues to support DMU dictionaries and the utilities that 
      manipulate DMU dictionary definitions (CDDV and CDDL).  If a DMU 
      dictionary does not already exist on a system, CDD/Plus creates one 
      during the installation procedure.  Users manipulate DMU dictionary 
      definitions through the DMU utility.  Users can also read DMU definitions 
      through CDO.

    ^ CDDV - The Verify/Fix Utility (CDDV) is supplied to validate or repair
      DMU dictionary files.  

    ^ CDDL -  The Data Definition Language Utility (CDDL) provides users with
      a mechanism for entering DMU dictionary record definitions directly.
      A text editor is used to create a CDDL source file containing
      record definitions and then the CDDL compiler is invoked to insert
      the record definition into the DMU dictionary.

Features

The following major features are utilized by only CDO dictionaries.  VMS 
information management products that provide full support for CDO 
dictionaries are also able to utilize the capabilities associated with those 
dictionaries.

  ^ Distributed Dictionary Implementation

    VAX CDD/Plus provides distributed access to CDO dictionary definitions 
    and directories.  Through CDO, users can access metadata in CDO 
    dictionaries on different devices on a single node, on different nodes in 
    a VAXcluster, and on nodes connected by a local or wide area network.
    Dictionaries can be organized according to the needs of a corporation and 
    definitions can either be managed centrally or locally. Within the CDO 
    interface, users can switch from one physical dictionary to another and 
    gain access to definitions in any of the dictionaries the user has 
    access to.

  ^ Field-Level Data Descriptions

    A field definition is the smallest unit of metadata that can be created
    and accessed in the dictionary.  Field definitions can be simple data
    structures or complex subscripted structures.  They can be combined to
    form various record definitions and can be accessed individually from
    several of the VAX layered products.  Users need store only one copy
    of a particular definition that is used by various sources.

  ^ Relationships

    Relationships are created by VAX CDD/Plus when users connect two CDO
    definitions in some way.  For example, users can base the definition
    of a new field on a field definition that already exists in a CDO 
    dictionary.  Similarly, users can relate a group of field definitions
    in a record definition by including the field names in the record
    definition.  Users do not need to define these relationships - CDO
    automatically creates them when users create field and record definitions
    in CDO.

  ^ Usage Tracking
 
    VAX CDD/Plus keeps track of all CDO dictionary usage.  Therefore, users
    can find out which other dictionary definitions make use of a particular
    field definition.  When users want to change a field definition, they can
    confirm which definitions may be affected by the change and which 
    definitions need to be redefined before using the changed field 
    definition.

    Users can control changes to definitions in two ways: they can change
    the original definition to take effect immediately, or they can create a 
    new version and allow other users to incorporate it over time.  Messages
    can warn users when a new version of a dictionary definition exists
    or when inconsistencies may exist between the dictionary and external 
    copies.

  ^ Data Security and Integrity

    VAX CDD/Plus provides the data administrator with the tools to grant or
    deny access rights to dictionary definitions.  The VAX CDD/Plus 
    protection provisions for CDO definitions are consistent with VMS 
    protection schemes.  Also, VAX CDD/Plus provides journaling capabilities 
    that automatically protect dictionary sessions from system failures.

  ^ Call Interface

    System programmer, software engineers, and experienced application
    designers can make direct calls to the VAX CDD/Plus entry points from 
    user programs.  Using the call interface allows these users to directly 
    access CDO dictionaries without using the CDO utility.  The call 
    interface is documented in the VAX CDD/Plus Call Interface Manual.

Documentation

The VAX CDD/Plus documentation set consists of:

  ^ VAX CDD/Plus User's Guide - Provides tutorial material for creating
    and maintaining CDD/Plus dictionaries

  ^ VAX CDD/Plus Common Dictionary Operator Reference Manual - Provides
    reference material and syntax for all CDO commands

  ^ VAX CDD Data Definition Language Reference Manual - Describes the VAX
    CDD Data Definition Language Utility (CDDL) which manipulates definitions 
    in DMU dictionaries

  ^ VAX CDD Utilities Reference Manual - Describes the Dictionary Management
    Utility (DMU) and the Dictionary Verify/Fix Utility (CDDV)

  ^ VAX CDD/Plus Call Interface Manual - Provides reference material for the
    system administrator on CDO dictionary architecture.  This manual is not
    part of the regular CDD/Plus documentation set, but it can be ordered
    separately.


HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the CDD/Plus
System Support Addendum (SSA 25.53.17-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System
                                                                              
Layered Products

VMS Workstation Software

*Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions
 of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.53.17-x).                                

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-897A*-**
Software Media: QA-897A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-897AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-897A*-**

*Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses, 
 services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's      
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about                   
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL          
office.                                                                     

License Management Facility Support                                         

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.          

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.       

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the       
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx),           
or the VMS Operating System documentation set.                              

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES                                                   
                                                                            
A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more          
information contact your local DIGITAL office.                              

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum
of this SPD.

April 1989
AE-L816R-TE

