
PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DEC/CMS, Version 3.2                       SPD 25.52.13
               
DESCRIPTION

VAX DEC/CMS, Version 3.2 provides a VMS DECwindows user interface in 
addition to its command-line interface.  

VAX DEC/CMS (Code Management System) is a library system that facilitates the
development and maintenance of software systems.  Software systems are
divided into different functional components that are, in turn, organized
into sets of one or more files.  

During development, one or more programmers continually make changes to 
these files.  VAX DEC/CMS helps manage the files during development (and 
later during maintenance) by storing the files in a project library, tracking 
changes, and monitoring access to the library. VAX DEC/CMS also supplies a 
means of manipulating different combinations of files within a library.  
The ability to formalize these combinations provides a focus for system 
design and a means of organizing the files within a library.

VAX DEC/CMS is included in the VAXset (SPD 27.07.xx) Software Development
Tools Package.  This package provides simplified ordering and maintenance of
various tools.  Refer to the appropriate Software Product Description for 
more information on VAXset. 

Features

^  Provides a VMS DECwindows interface in addition to its command-line 
   interface

^  Store ASCII and non-ASCII (e.g. .EXE, .OBJ, and ISAM) files in a project
   library

^  Support for multiple project libraries                                  

^  Retrieve previous file generations

^  Delete, purge, or collapse generations                                  

^  Obtain a report of file modifications, including when, why, and by whom 
   the modification was made

^  Determine the origin of each line of a file, either as an annotated 
   listing or as comments in the file

^  Manage concurrent modifications

^  Merge separately-developed modifications

^  Combine related files together as a ``group''

^  Relate the generation of one element to the corresponding generations of 
   other elements for purposes of freezing baselines or releases and for 
   organizing ongoing development.

^  Interface via callable routines as well as DCL commands or DECwindows
   functions

^  Through the use of CMS access control lists, fine tune VMS security 
   mechanisms applied to CMS Libraries and provide a means of notification 
   about Library events.                                         

Each CMS command may be invoked from VMS's command level to perform a
specific function, such as reserving a file for modification or obtaining a
report of development status.  The command then returns to VMS's command
level, where the user may edit, compile, and test in the usual manner.  Since
VAX DEC/CMS allows the user to work with sequential ASCII files (among
others), all of the standard editors and compilers can still be used. 

All text files for the project can be stored in a single or multiple project
library which the user identifies at the beginning of each session by means
of the CMS SET LIBRARY command.  In the case of multiple project libraries,
the user provides a search list of directory specifications for the desired
project libraries.  ASCII and non-ASCII files can be stored in the project
library, including source programs, command files, documentation, and test
data. 

A project library is a collection of elements.  Elements can be created from
ASCII and non-ASCII files and  combined into ``groups''.  A user can specify
an element for review prior to acceptance.  Commands operate on elements or
groups, or they can operate on wild card specifications as in VMS. 

For each element, the library stores successive generations or historical
instances of the element's files.  Once an element generation exists in the
library, it never changes.  A modification to a generation is stored as a new
generation.  Successive generations, each a modification of the previous,
form a line of descent.  Typically, each element generation will have one
successor, which is the main line of descent.  VAX DEC/CMS allows two or more
successors to a generation, forming variant lines of descent. 

Generation expressions allow the user to retrieve a particular generation or
the latest in a particular line of descent.  A generation or line of descent
can be identified by a generation number, or by a user-defined class name.  A
class can denote a base level, a release, the current stable version, a
debugging version, or any other characteristic agreed upon by the users for
their project. 

Historical generations of source and other files are retained efficiently by
storing only their differences.  VAX DEC/CMS determines the differences, and
this information enables it to report the generation of origin for each line
of a file, i.e., the generation in which the line was most recently inserted
or modified.  This origin information can be optionally inserted as "history"
comments on each line of the file itself. 

A history is kept of all file movements into and out of the project library. 
In addition, a list of reservations is kept for all modifications that are in
progress at any time.  A user who wishes to reserve, for modification, an
element that is previously reserved by someone else, is informed and asked
permission to continue.  If the user chooses to proceed, the occurrence is
recorded as an unusual event.  The other users involved will similarly be
informed and queried, when they attempt to put their modifications back into
the library.  Users in general, can be notified through MAIL when any event
occurs in the project libraries. This notification is achieved by processing
the entries in the access control list (ACL). 

Concurrent modifications are not lost; they are stored in the library on
different lines of descent.  Modifications on different lines of descent can
be merged, and the result can be edited to resolve any conflicting
modifications. 

Principal VAX DEC/CMS Subcommands
 
^  REVIEW Commands - ACCEPT GENERATION, REJECT GENERATION, MARK GENERATION, 
   REVIEW GENERATION, CANCEL REVIEW, and the /REVIEW qualifier on CREATE    
   and MODIFY ELEMENT commands.  These allow a user to specify that a       
   generation of an element must be reviewed before becoming a ``normal'' part 
   of the CMS library, to monitor the review process, and to approve the    
   generation (or mark it as disapproved).                                  

^  RESERVE - Places a copy of a generation in the user's working directory
   and notes that the user is working on a modification for it.  The entire
   element may be reserved against concurrent modification by another user. 
   A user can have several elements reserved at the same time.  Multiple      
   generations of an element can be saved or the same generation of an 
   element can be saved multiple times.  A remark can  optionally be inserted 
   into each line to show the origin of the line (see ANNOTATE).  A qualifier 
   allows another generation of the same element to be merged into the copy 
   supplied to the user.

^  FETCH - Similar to RESERVE, except that the element is not reserved for
   modification.  The copy placed in the working directory cannot be used 
   to create a new generation of the same element.

^  REPLACE - Creates a new generation of an element that the user has 
   reserved.  The files of the new generation are moved to the project 
   library from the user's working directory.

^  UNRESERVE - Cancels an existing reservation of an element.

^  ANNOTATE - produces an annotated listing of any element in the library.  The
   annotations describe the element and its ancestors, and indicate the origin
   of each line of the element (i.e., the generation in which each line was
   inserted or most recently modified).

^  SHOW - Displays information about any objects in the library:  elements,
   element generations, groups, classes. For any generation, the command can 
   give the author, creation data, creating command, and author's remark.  
   This information can also be obtained for a generation's ancestors or 
   descendants.  The command can also list all elements of the library, all 
   that are reserved, or all that have a generation in a given class.  All 
   or a portion of the project history can be displayed by object name, user 
   name, or command.

^  CREATE - Creates a new element, class, or group                         

^  INSERT - Puts an element into a group or an element generation into a 
   class 

^  SET LIBRARY - Identifies the user's project library or multiple project  
   libraries at the start of a session                                      

^  SET ACL - Allows modification of the access control list on various 
   objects in the DEC/CMS library.  Access control lists can be used to     
   control access to individual DEC/CMS commands.                           

^  VERIFY - performs consistency checks on the library, and recovers from a
   malfunction by voiding a partially-completed transaction.

Performance Considerations

Response time performance might appear to be less than expected because of
the checking and processing done, for certain operations, ensuring the safety
and accuracy of the user's file.  It is not appropriate to compare these CMS
commands to the VMS COPY command. 
                                                         
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
 
VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support
Addendum (SSA 25.52.13-x). 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

For systems using terminals (no DECwindows interface):

VMS Operating System

For Workstations running VMS Workstation Software (no VMS DECwindows interface):

VMS Operating System      
VMS Workstation Software  

For Workstations running VMS DECwindows:

VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
  of prerequisite software and for information regarding components of 
  VMS DECwindows (SSA 25.52.13-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses:  QL-007A*-**
Software Media:  QA-007A*-**
Software Documentation:  QA-007AA-GZ
Software Product Services:  QT-007A*-**

*  Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses, 
   services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or 
the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available. For more information on these or
other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product  is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of 
this SPD.


May 1989
AE-M629N-TE
