VAX DEC/Test Manager, Version 3.0                          SPD 26.68.07

DESCRIPTION

VAX DEC/Test Manager automates regression testing by executing 
user-supplied tests and automatically comparing the results with the 
expected test results. VAX DEC/Test Manager gives the software engineer 
flexibility in organizing tests, selecting tests for execution, and 
verifying and reviewing test results. Batch applications and interactive 
applications which input and output text to character cell terminals or 
DECwindows applications on VMS can be tested using VAX DEC/Test Manager.

VAX DEC/Test Manager supports the DECwindows software environment and 
provides either a DECwindows or command line user interface.  VAX DEC/Test 
Manager is included in the VAXset Software Engineering Tools Package (SPD 
27.07.xx).  This package provides simplified ordering and maintenance of 
various tools.  See (SPD 27.07.xx) for more information on VAXset.

VAX DEC/Test Manager lets the user create a library area for test result 
storage.  It allows users to: 

oo   Access DTM functions via command line interface, VMS DECwindows 
    interface, or software callable interface.

oo   Create descriptions of their software tests and store related files in 
    VMS directories or CMS libraries.  Such directories or CMS libraries 
    may be local to the VMS cluster or distributed on remote VMS nodes 
    accessible via DFS.

oo   Group these test descriptions into meaningful combinations for later 
    runs.

oo   Display and modify the test descriptions or groups of test 
    descriptions.

oo   Specify command files as test templates to exercise software in 
    noninteractive tests.

oo   Record and replay interactive terminal and interactive DECwindows 
    sessions.

oo   Edit interactive terminal sessions to alter the tests exercise of an 
    application.

oo   Execute specific tests, groups of tests, or combinations of groups of 
    tests.

oo   Save application  output from test recording or execution as benchmarks 
    against which result output from later test execution will be compared.

oo   Compare the results of the executed tests with benchmark test results, 
    providing formatted differences output for review.

oo   View test results and differences interactively, providing screen by 
    screen differences review for interactive tests and review of 
    differences reports for noninteractive tests.

oo   Update benchmarks as needed.

VAX DEC/Test Manager runs on VMS and is targeted for use by software 
engineers working on a wide range of software projects that can be tested 
interactively or in batch.

Features 

oo   CREATE - Allows for the creation of a new Test Manager library, 
    creation of test descriptions and groups, definition of pointers to 
    related files, and inclusion of information to be used during the 
    selection or execution of tests.

oo   COPY - Allows the copying of a test description to be stored under 
    another name, where it can be modified without affecting the original 
    test description.                                                           
    
oo   MODIFY - Changes the value of any field in an existing test description 
    or variable definition as supplied by the user. (Variables are VMS 
    logicals or symbols.)

oo   INSERT - Puts a test description into a group thus allowing association 
    of related tests. May also be used to associate groups with other 
    groups of tests.

oo   SUBMIT - Runs selected tests in a specified batch queue.

oo   COMPARE - Compares the results of test executions with corresponding 
    benchmark files.  VAX DEC/Test Manager lets the user establish 
    benchmark files for test results determined to be correct.  It also 
    lets the user see any differences between a test's benchmark file and 
    results of subsequent test runs.

oo   REVIEW - Provides a structured, interactive means for examining test 
    run results.  Operates as a subsystem with a full set of commands to 
    iterate over a collection of test results.

oo   VERIFY - Performs consistency checks on the library and recovers from a 
    malfunction by nullifying a partially completed transaction.

oo   SHOW - Displays the values of various objects of the current VAX 
    DEC/Test Manager session.  Users can display the directory spec of the 
    Test Manager Library, field values of test descriptions, variables, 
    groups, and tests  collected for execution.

oo   STOP - Stops and deletes a collection that has been submitted to a 
    batch queue.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 26.68.07-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

For systems using terminals:  (No DECwindows interface)

VMS Operating System

For workstations running VWS:

VMS Operating System
VMS Workstation Software

For workstations running DECwindows:

VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
of prerequisite software and for information regarding components of VMS 
DECwindows.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses:  QL-927A*-** 
Software Media:  QL-927A*-** 
Software Documentation:  QA-927AA-GZ 
Software Product Services:  QT-927A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

License Management Facility Support

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. For 
more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

May 1989
AE-D350H-TE
