



PRODUCT NAME: VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer,          SPD 26.76.04   
              Version 2.1

DESCRIPTION

The VAX Performance  and Coverage  Analyzer  is a tool  to  help VMS  users   
analyze the execution behavior of their  applications  programs.    The VAX
Performance  and  Coverage  Analyzer  has two functions.    First,  it  can
pinpoint    execution    bottlenecks  and  other  performance  problems  in
applications  programs.    Secondly, it provides test coverage analysis  by
measuring what parts of a user program are executed or  not  executed  by a
given set of test data. 

The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer supports the DECwindows Software
environment as provides either a DECwindows or a command line user interface.

The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer is included in the VAXset (SPD
27.07.xx) Software Engineering Tools Package. This package provides simplified
ordering and maintenance of various tools. See the appropriate Software
Product Description for more information on VAXset.


The  VAX  Performance  and  Coverage  Analyzer  is an  aid  in  tuning  the
performance and testing of applications programs.  It is not a tool for the
analysis of operating system performance or for use as an  aid  in hardware
resource planning. 

The  VAX  Performance  and  Coverage  Analyzer consists of two parts:   the
Collector  which  gathers  performance or test coverage data on the running
user program  and  the  Analyzer  which  later  processes  and displays the
collected data.  The Collector gathers the performance data and writes that
information to a data  file.   Once the data has been collected into a data
file, the Analyzer can be  run using that data file as input.  The Analyzer
is a separate program which reads  the  data file produced by the Collector
and presents the results as performance histograms or other displays. 

Both the Collector and the Analyzer are  fully  symbolic  and use the Debug
Symbol Table (DST) information in the user program  to  access the symbolic
names  of  program  locations.    Applications written in any  of  the  VMS
languages  which  produce  DST  information  can be analyzed using the  VAX
Performance  and Coverage Analyzer.  (For a list of these languages,  refer
to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section of this product's SSA.) 

The  VAX  Performance  and  Coverage  Analyzer  can  gather  and report the
following types of performance data: 

^  Ada multi-tasking  data  -  Various  kinds of multi-tasking data can be
   gathered to determine which tasks consume the most resources.               

^  PC sampling data  - The PC (Program Counter) of the user program can be
   sampled to determine what  parts  of  the  user  program  take  the most
   wall-clock time during program execution.

^  CPU sampling data - The  PC  of  the  user  program  can  be sampled to
   determine what parts of the user  program  take the most CPU time during
   program execution.

^  Execution counts - The Collector allows execution counters to be set on
   specified individual program locations or on classes of  locations, such
   as the beginning of every routine or on every line of a given routine.

^  Test coverage - The Collector can determine which lines  or  code paths
   of a program are executed for a specific set of  test data and which are
   not.

^  Event  markers - When collecting performance data the user may wish  to
   mark  significant events in the execution of the program to permit later
   filtering of the data.  For example, an event may be entering a  routine
   in the application program.

^  Page  fault  data - Information can be collected each time a page fault
   occurs.

^  System service counts - The Collector can determine the number of times
   a user program calls each system service for analysis of event-driven or
   real-time applications.

^  Input/Output  statistics  -  Data  on  a  program's  input  and  output
   characteristics can be collected.

The following information describes how  the  Collector  and  Analyzer  are
used:

At Compile-Time

To enable performance analysis of application  programs,  the /DEBUG switch
must be specified in the compiler command line.  This switch specifies that
the compiler should generate DST records and place  that information in the
object file created by the compiler. 

At Link-Time

When  linking  the  application  which  will be run under  control  of  the
Collector    phase    of    the  VAX  Performance  and  Coverage  Analyzer,
/DEBUG=SYS$LIBRARY:PCA$OBJ.OBJ must be specified as a qualifier to the LINK
command. 

At Run-Time

The Collector is  invoked  when  the  user  program  is  run.  The user may
specify the data collection options and then specify GO to run the program.
The Collector gathers the requested  performance  and  coverage data as the
program runs to completion. 

To Analyze The Data

The  Analyzer  is  an  image which  must  be  invoked  independent  of  the
Collector.    The  Analyzer uses the data  file  which  the  Collector  has
gathered  to  produce histograms and tabular displays of  the  data.    The
Analyzer can be used interactively to view the same  performance  data in a
variety of ways to quickly focus on specific performance problems.  Program
sources can be shown with the performance data in many displays.  Windowing
capabilities allow multiple displays to be viewed at the same time on  some
types of  terminals.    In  addition, data from multiple collections can be
merged and analyzed at the same time. 

Certain features of VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer are not available
when using language preprocessors such as those supplied for VAX Rdb/VMS
and VAX DBMS. Please consult your local DIGITAL Representative for additional 
information.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or  VAXstation  configuration  as  specified  in  the  System
Support Addendum (SSA 26.76.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

For systems using terminals: (No DECwindows interface)

^ VMS Operating System    

Note: VMS DECwindows Compute Server Component must be installed to use the 
      VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer.

For workstations running VAX Worksystem Software:

^ VMS Operating System
^ VMS Workstation Software

For workstations running DECwindows:

^ VMS Operating System ( and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

* Refer to the  System  Support  Addendum for availability and required 
 versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 26.76.04-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-119A*-**
Software Media: QA-119A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-119AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-119A*-**

*Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
 services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

License Management Facility Support

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.  

License units for this product  are  allocated  on  a CPU-capacity basis.  

For more information on the License Management  Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System  Software   Product  Description  (SPD  25.01.xx)   or  
the  License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This  software  is furnished under the licensing  provisions  of  DIGITAL's
Standard  Terms  and  Conditions.    For more information  about  DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A  variety  of  service  options  are  available from DIGITAL.    For  more
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY
 
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software  Warranty  Addendum
of this SPD.


AE-EB60E-TE
