
PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Packetnet System Interface (P.S.I.) Access,  SPD 27.78.01
               Version 4.2 

DESCRIPTION
 
The VAX Packetnet System Interface Access (VAX P.S.I. Access) product allows a
properly configured DECnet-VAX system in a DECnet environment to make logical
connections to PSDNs by way of one or more other connector node(s). VAX
P.S.I. Access, with the connector node providing physical connection(s) to a
PSDN(s), enables process-to-process and terminal communications between the
accessing VAX and remote Data Terminal Equipment (DTE). 

The connector node may be any of the following:
 
^  VAX P.S.I. (refer to SPD 25.40.xx) configured in Multi-host mode. 
    
^  A DECnet Router/X.25 Gateway product (refer to SPD 30.41.xx).  In this 
   case several features and options will not be available. 

DECnet logical links are established by VMS to connect the VAX P.S.I.
Access host to the connector node.  These links may use any supported DECnet
communications path between the VAX P.S.I. Access node and the connector
node, provided they do not themselves use an X.25 connection.  VAX P.S.I.
Access uses these links to transmit X.25 or X.29 messages between the
connector node and the VAX P.S.I. Access host.  Note, however, that successful
use of an X.29 connection, either for incoming X.29 calls or by means of the
host PAD utility supplied with VAX P.S.I. Access, depends on the DECnet
circuit between the Access and connector nodes having a low response time;
this implies high-speed DECnet connections and few intermediate routing
nodes. 

A single VAX P.S.I. Access host can connect to one or more connector
nodes concurrently, and hence access all PSDN(s) accessible from those
connector nodes.  With the installation of VAX P.S.I. Access, one of these 
several connector nodes/PSDN combinations would be established as the default 
gateway for outbound traffic, and from which any inbound traffic would 
normally flow. 

User Interface
 
VAX P.S.I. Access is a layered product on VMS, and may be used in the 
following ways: 

^  Process-to-process (X.25) communication

   VAX P.S.I. Access supports access for VMS user programs written in 
   VAX MACRO and Native mode high-level languages such as VAX FORTRAN. Programs 
   executing in PDP-11 compatibility mode cannot use VAX P.S.I.

^  Process-to-terminal (X.29) communication

   Users of the VAX node may make outgoing calls to other DIGITAL or 
   non-DIGITAL CPUs or suitable network PADs accessible via the PSDN(s), by 
   programming interface or by using the host-based PAD supplied with VAX 
   P.S.I. Access.  The latter feature employs a DCL-style command syntax, 
   offering the ability to reference the CCITT PAD parameters symbolically, 
   as well as an interface that conforms to the standard CCITT command signals.
   The host-based PAD also offers the capability of running multiple X.29 
   sessions using the VMS SPAWN and ATTACH commands.

   The X.29 programming interface allows generation of PAD reselection 
   messages.  The host-based PAD supports reception of a PAD reselect message.
   This feature allows X.29 calls to be redirected to another DTE.  Before 
   using the PAD reselection facility check that it is supported by the PAD.  
  
^  Terminal-to-Process (X.29) communication

   Remote terminals connected to the PSDN(s) may access the VAX host running 
   VAX P.S.I. Access by means of an X.29 Switched Virtual Circuit call. The 
   X.29 Virtual Terminal driver conforms to the VMS Port and Class driver 
   architecture, thus providing compatibility with the interface provided by 
   a locally connected terminal.

^  Open System Interconnection

   VAX P.S.I. Access may be used for Open System Interconnection (OSI) 
   communication, when used with the VAX OSI TRANSPORT SERVICE (VOTS) product 
   (refer to SPD 27.15.xx). 

For all the above uses, VAX P.S.I. provides the following additional features:

^  The ability to collect accounting information on the usage of P.S.I. is 
   included in the product. The Accounting utility provided with the product 
   is compatible with the VMS Accounting utility.

^  A security mechanism, consistent with the VMS access and security 
   mechanisms, is available. The security utility offers the means of 
   controlling both remote access to the VAX system or local access to the 
   PSDN(s), on a per-PSDN or individual remote DTE number basis.  Outbound
   calls from any machine using VAX P.S.I. Access can be controlled by        
   Multi-host systems.                                                        
 
^  For communications between two VAX systems running VAX P.S.I. or 
   VAX P.S.I. Access, the VAX P.S.I. product permits the transfer 
   of electronic mail using the VMS mail facility (refer to VMS 
   Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx) even in the absence of any DECnet 
   communications between the two DTEs.

Process-to-Process Communication

VAX P.S.I. Access programming interface allows application programs to access 
the service interface to the packet level via the standard VMS QIO interface. 
Functions include the setting up and breaking of network connections,
data transmission and reception, sending and receiving of interrupt messages,
and resetting of virtual circuits. The interface also provides for splitting
and recombination of messages which are longer than the packet size selected
for the circuit. 
 
This interface enables an application program using VMS System Services
to communicate with complementary software on other systems (DIGITAL or
non-DIGITAL DTEs) accessible via the X.25 connection. 

Terminal Communications
 
VAX P.S.I. Access supports terminal communications according to CCITT 
recommendations X.3, X.28, and X.29.  Only those terminal parameters defined 
in the X.3 recommendation are explicitly supported; network-specific 
enhancements or extensions to the X.3 parameters are available at both X.29 
and the host-based PAD user interface.  Terminal processes that
depend on these extensions may cause problems when used on other PSDNs or
when accessing one PSDN via another (e.g. international access). 

^  Outgoing terminal traffic

   Using the Host-Based Packet Assembly/Disassembly (PAD) facility, terminals 
   connected locally (logically or physically) to the VMS system may 
   communicate with remote DTEs over the PSDN(s). Such terminals may connect 
   to remote DTEs in a manner identical to the way in which remote terminals  
   can connect over a PSDN. This utility accepts DCL-style commands, or 
   CCITT X.28 commands.

^  Incoming terminal traffic

   The X.29 Interactive Terminal Interface allows remote asynchronous 
   terminals (character-mode DTEs) connected to the network to communicate 
   with the VMS system in a manner similar to local terminals.  
   Dissimilarities may appear as a result of delays caused by the PSDN(s) and 
   the various PAD parameter settings chosen by the user or peculiar to the 
   PSDN(s).  In this case, the remote PAD must perform code conversions 
   between ASCII and the code the terminal uses.  (There may be some 
   restrictions imposed by the PSDN(s) itself.)  

The interface an X.29 terminal uses is compatible with the interface a local
terminal uses, except for those facilities where the PSDN does not provide
adequate support.  The X.29 interface includes support for specific X.29
signaling.  For example, the break key can be used to disable output, and
the interrupt message can be mapped directly to the VMS interrupt
character. 

A similar programming interface to the X.25 one is provided, so that a
VMS process can control the virtual circuit (for example, to modify PAD
parameters or clear a call). This program interface can also be used to make
an outgoing call to a remote PAD. 

The use of PVCs for X.29 connections is not defined by the 1980, 1984 CCITT  
recommendations, and hence is not available with VAX P.S.I. Access. 

Co-resident VAX P.S.I. and VAX P.S.I. Access
 
In a network consisting of more than one connector node involving one or more
VAX P.S.I. Multi-host nodes, it may be desirable that users in a Multi-host
node can gain access to PSDN(s) connected to another connector node.  This
can be accomplished by installing both VAX P.S.I. and VAX P.S.I. Access in
the same node. 

Virtual Circuits
 
VAX P.S.I. Access offers communication over both Permanent and Switched
Virtual Circuits (PVC and SVC) from the connector node, and supports up to
512 virtual circuits in total per CPU.  One virtual circuit is used for each
incoming or outgoing terminal connection, for each X.25 call and for each
permanent virtual circuit.                                                   
 
The maximum number of terminals supported (both local and remote) must not
exceed that supported by VMS. 

Conformance to Standards
 
Please refer to appropriate SPD for the connector node product
for a definition of those standards and protocol options supported. 

Accounting
 
The Accounting utility enables the system manager to obtain information on
P.S.I. and network usage.  The Accounting utility can extract the information
collected and display the information directly on a terminal or to a file.
The information can be extracted for selected records, or a summary can be
produced. 

In the case of incoming X.29 calls, no information can be stored relating to
the process/account on to which a user is logged; this may be obtained by      
correlation with VMS accounting records. 

In a VAX P.S.I. Access processor, the VAX P.S.I. Accounting utility records
details of traffic to/from the Access node only; accounting should be in use
in both connector node and Access nodes for comprehensive data gathering.

Refer to the appropriate SPD for the connector node product for a definition 
of those accounting features available. 

Security
 
The security utility offers the means of controlling both remote DTE access
to VAX P.S.I., and access to the PSDN(s) by VMS processes.  The Security
utility allows for access control on the basis of: 

^  Whether or not the call is normally or reverse charged,

^  The remote DTE numbers involved, either on the basis of individual DTE 
   numbers or groups of DTE numbers with common leading digits,

^  The process making the outgoing call or the application handling the 
   incoming call.

The VAX P.S.I. Access security utility performs security checking for calls
to and from the VAX P.S.I. Access node only.  Note that security checking in
a VAX P.S.I. Multi-host node checks both incoming and outgoing calls for the  
right to communicate to the VAX P.S.I. Access node.  

Refer to the appropriate SPD for the connector node product for a definition 
of those security features available.

Network Management 
 
VMS provides a Network Control Program (NCP) for management of
DECnet-VAX, and the VAX P.S.I. Access product.  This program
provides Network Management facilities to define the connector node(s) to be
used for communications, specify addressing information for incoming calls
and perform other maintenance functions.  The manager can modify the 
databases, (for example, add connector nodes to a VAX P.S.I. Access node), 
thus controlling network operation. 
 
Problem solving is facilitated by the ability to test components of the total
network, and trace and analyze packets passing between the connector node and 
the VAX P.S.I. Access system.  

PREREQUISITE SUPPORT
 
The customer and DIGITAL must jointly prepare a Network
Profile and Customer Support Plan covering all the intended network nodes,
their usage of SVCs, PVCs, and other network facilities, and their support. 
 
Support services for the VAX P.S.I. Access product require that the
corresponding or a greater level of service for the connector node(s) used
must also be obtained.   

INSTALLATION

DIGITAL requires that a customer's first purchase of the product include
DIGITAL Installation Services.  These services provide for installation
of the software product by an experienced DIGITAL software specialist.

Only customers experienced with DIGITAL's X.25 products should attempt second  
or subsequent installations.  DIGITAL recommends that all other customers      
purchase DIGITAL's Installation services.

Customer Responsibilities

Before installation of the software, the customer must:

^  Previously have installed all requisite software and hardware, including 
   terminals.
   
^  Obtain, install and demonstrate as operational both the connection from the
   connector node to the PSDN, and the DECnet connection to the connector 
   node.
 
^  Check the requirements for the connector node installation checkout from
   the appropriate connector node SPD.
 
^  Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed by 
   DIGITAL and the customer, all hardware, communication facilities and 
   terminals that are to be used during installation.

Delays caused by any failure to meet the responsibilities will be charged at
the then prevailing rate for time and materials. 

Courtesy Installation Service
 
This software product will be installed by DIGITAL at no additional charge if
you purchase it concurrent with a Startup Service Package that includes
installation service.  Both the operating system and this product must be
installed concurrently.  This service may not be available in all countries. 
 
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
 
VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as specified in the
System Support Addendum (SSA 27.78.01-x).

OPTIONAL HARDWARE
 
Other connector nodes, connected to the same or different PSDN(s), may be
added to the overall DECnet network.  If communication from a VAX P.S.I.
Access host to a PSDN connected to one of these additional connector nodes is
required, or additional PSDN(s) are connected to existing connector nodes,
the Network Management databases must be updated. 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *
 
VMS Operating System
 
DECnet-VAX (either end-node or full-function)

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

None

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for the required versions of 
  prerequisite software (SSA 27.78.01-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-061A*-**
Software Media: QA-061A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-061AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-061A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY
 
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD. 

Use of the VAX P.S.I. Access software in conjunction with a
connector node for which DIGITAL support has not been purchased and/or is not
available, invalidates any warranty or support offered in this SPD.  In
particular, this clause requires connection only to those PSDN(s) which are
fully supported by the connector node software. 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's standard
Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's licensing
terms and policies, please contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product support the License Management Facility.  License 
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or 
the VMS documentation set.  

For more information on DIGITAL's licensing policies, contact your 
local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available.  For more information on these or
other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office. 

August 1988
BH-KK33B-TE

