PRODUCT NAME:  Remote System Manager, Version 2.1          SPD 29.59.01

DESCRIPTION

Remote System Manager (RSM) is a VMS and ULTRIX layered product that permits
a system manager to efficiently manage a number of computer systems. 

RSM uses the DECnet network to automate the recurring system management tasks
of: 

^  Software distribution and installation (both operating systems and 
   applications)

^  File backup and restore

^  System administration

For flexibility in configuration, RSM is available as three
separately-licensed products: 

RSM VMS Server 

This product maintains RSM Client software and administrative information, 
maintains libraries of operating system and application software, directs the 
installation of software, schedules file backups, and receives file backups.

Additionally for RSM VMS Clients, the Server provides for the remote 
maintenance of user accounts, directories, and DECnet proxies.

The RSM Server license includes the right to install the RSM VMS Client on 
the same node.

RSM VMS Client 

This product provides VMS systems with the ability to receive software 
distributed from an RSM Server. This product also permits files to be backed 
up to and restored from an RSM Server.

RSM ULTRIX Client 

This product provides ULTRIX systems with the ability to receive software 
distributed from an RSM Server. This product also permits files to be backed 
up to and restored from an RSM Server.

Typical networks would have one or more RSM Servers each serving a number of 
Clients.

Features

Software Distribution and Installation

The Software Distribution Services (SDS) component of the RSM Server 
performs the installation of software to RSM Clients.  RSM stores copies of 
operating systems and applications for both VMS and ULTRIX systems in a 
library on the RSM Server and uses the DECnet network to automatically 
distribute software to the RSM Client during the installation process.

NOTE:  Software that is installed using SDS remains subject to any licensing 
       restrictions associated with that software.

Application Software Installation

RSM provides the ability to take applications from an RSM Server library and
install those applications on one or more RSM Clients.  Application software
is installed at the RSM Client using the standard installation utility for
that system (for VMS systems, the VMSINSTAL utility; for ULTRIX systems, the
setld utility). 

RSM's Application Sets feature provides for the creation and manipulation of
'sets' of related applications. The concept of Application Sets makes
performing operations on an entire set of applications as easy as performing
operations on a single application. 

RSM provides the ability to manage and enforce application prerequisites.
This feature permits applications to be stored in the library along with
information on the software prerequisites for the application. When RSM is
requested to install this application, RSM automatically verifies that RSM
has installed all of the software prerequisites on the Client. If RSM finds
that any prerequisite software is not present on the Client, RSM
automatically installs the required prerequisite software. 

Restrictions

For VMS:

SDS can install any VMS application that can be installed with the 
VMSINSTAL utility and conforms to the following rules:

^  The application's installation procedure must conform to the guidelines  
   presented in the VMS Developer's Guide to VMSINSTAL.

^  The application must be installable while VMSINSTAL is running as a 
   noninteractive process. In addition, the application must be installable
   using a VMSINSTAL auto-answer file.

SDS executes VMSINSTAL as a detached process. Therefore, any application
installation procedure that performs terminal-related activities (such as SET
TERMINAL) or modifies its execution based on process mode (such as
INTERACTIVE or BATCH) may fail. 

^  The application installation procedure must not depend on local conditions 
   such as node name or pre-existing files.

For ULTRIX:

SDS can install any ULTRIX application that can be installed with the 
setld utility.

Operating System Software Installation

RSM can install a VMS or ULTRIX operating system on an RSM Client. Using this
capability, managers of RSM Servers can take a VAXstation, MicroVAX, or 
VAXserver, connect it to an Ethernet network, and have a preconfigured 
operating system transmitted over the Ethernet and installed on the RSM 
Client.

Restrictions

For the installation of operating system software, both the RSM Server and 
its Client must be on the same Local Area Network (or Extended Local Area 
Network).

RSM requires an initial installation of any Operating System that is to be 
distributed by RSM. This initial installation requires that at least one 
system of each processor type contain a load media device.

In order for RSM to install a VMS operating system on a Client's disk, that 
disk must have 20,000 more free blocks than that required by the actual 
software being installed (as listed in their SSA's). These 20,000 blocks are 
returned to the free disk area at the termination of the installation process.

File Backup and Restore

The Backup and Restore Services (BRS) component provides scheduled file 
backups from RSM Clients to RSM Servers. BRS also has the ability to restore 
files that it backed up.

Backups are scheduled by creating an RSM Server database entry for each 
backup task required for each Client. This entry defines all of the 
attributes of the backup task, such as the frequency of the backup (daily, 
weekly, monthly), the style of backup (incremental or full), the files to be 
backed up, and whether to store the backed up data on disk or tape.

Restrictions

When restoring to an RSM Client from a tape backup, RSM copies the 
information to be restored to an RSM Server disk prior to transferring this 
information to the RSM Client. There must be sufficient disk space on the RSM
Server for this operation.

In order for RSM to perform an image restore of an RSM Client, that Client 
must have at least two writable storage devices.

System Administration

The Client Administrative Services (CAS) component of the RSM Server provides 
remote management of user accounts, directories, and proxies on RSM VMS 
Clients. In addition, it provides a mechanism for maintaining consistent 
logical names, symbol names, and DECnet node names across the set of RSM VMS 
clients.

Restrictions

The mechanism for maintaining consistent logical names, symbols, and DECnet 
node names is provided by commands in a menu interface which allow a master 
copy of these databases to be distributed from the RSM server to specified
RSM VMS clients.

There is no command line interface to this component of RSM.

Additional Features

^  RSM Server Hierarchy 

   A single RSM Server can control the operation of up to four other RSM 
   Servers. This feature allows centralized scheduling of RSM operations 
   while other RSM Servers contain the SDS library or receive the backup 
   output files.

^  Menu and Command Line User Interface 

   This version of RSM supports both a menu-style and a command line 
   interface. The menu interface is designed to aid the user in the correct
   structuring of RSM command lines.

^  Groups 

   In many situations, a number of computer systems perform similar tasks. 
   These systems typically use the same software and can operate on the same 
   backup schedule. RSM's Group feature permits all of these systems to be 
   referenced by a single group name. RSM operations on a Group are performed
   on each system in the group.

^  Management of LMF licenses 

   RSM provides the ability to create and maintain a VMS License Management 
   database on the RSM VMS Server for each VMS Client. RSM can then transmit
   this database to the VMS Client and install it as a Secondary LMF 
   Database. This feature requires that both the Server and Client be 
   executing VMS at least at V5.0.

Configuration

Any given RSM Server should not be configured to support more than forty RSM 
Clients.

RSM supports only a single level of Server hierarchy. Thus, one Server can 
direct the actions of up to four other Servers (for example, Servers P, Q, R, 
and S), but Servers P, Q, R, and S can not direct the actions of any other 
Servers.

RSM makes extensive use of facilities provided by the operating system on
which it runs causing RSM to be highly dependent upon the configuration of
the base operating system. Operating system related files should not be moved
from where they were placed during the installation process. Also search
lists should not be created which prevent RSM from accessing the correct copy
of these files in the standard locations. All modifications to operating
system data files (i.e., DECnet databases, user authorization files, etc.)
should be done using the operating system provided utilities or as described
in the appropriate documentation. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 25.59.01-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

The VAX Distributed Name Service (DNS) (SPD 28.79.xx) must be installed 
within the network and accessible (via DECnet) from RSM Server nodes.

RSM Clients require that there be at least one RSM Server in the network.

For VAX Systems:

^  VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

^  DECnet-VAX

^  VMS Workstation Software

For ULTRIX Systems:

^  ULTRIX-32 Operating System or ULTRIX Worksystem Software

^  DECnet-ULTRIX

*  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.59.01-x) for availability and
   required versions of Prerequisite software. 

ORDERING INFORMATION

VMS Server

Software Licenses: QL-B13**-**
Software Media: QA-B13**-**
Software Documentation: QA-B13AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-B13A*-**

VMS Client

Software Licenses: QL-B14**-**
Software Media: None (1)
Software Documentation: None (2)
Software Product Services: None (3) 

ULTRIX Client

Software Licenses: Q*ZEZ-**
Software Media: None (1)
Software Documentation: None (2) 
Software Product Services: None (3)

(1) Client is distributed on the VMS Server media
(2) Client information covered in the documentation for the VMS Server
(3) Client Services provided in the Services offering for the VMS Server

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses, 
  services, and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
this SPD.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's licensing 
terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

The RSM VMS Server and RSM VMS Client layered products support the VMS 
License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the VMS
Operating System documentation set. 

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact
your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more information 
contact your local DIGITAL office.


August 1988
AE-LB72B-TE



