

PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Source Code Analyzer, Version 1.3           SPD 27.63.04

DESCRIPTION

The  VAX    Source    Code  Analyzer  is  an  interactive,  multi-language,
multi-module, source code  cross-reference  and  static analysis tool which
aids developers in understanding  the  complexities  of  software  systems.
Since it allows a developer  to  analyze  an  entire  system  as opposed to
individual modules, and helps the developer  understand unfamiliar systems,
the VAX Source Code Analyzer is extremely  useful during the implementation
and maintenance phases of a project. 

The VAX Source Code Analyzer is included in the VAXset Software Engineering  
Tools Package (SPD  27.07.xx).    This package provides simplified ordering  
and maintenance of various tools.  See SPD 27.07.xx for more information on 
VAXset.                                                                      

The VAX Source Code Analyzer's query capability allows  the  user to search
and  display  specific  symbol,  file and module information.   Its  static
analysis  capability  allows the user to display call tree information  and
validate routine call arguments. 

The  Source  Code Analyzer can help answer some commonly asked source  code
questions such as: 

-  Where is a particular global variable declared, initialized, modified, 
   or referenced?

-  In which modules are there references to a particular symbol name?
                                                                              
-  Are my calling arguments consistent?

-  Where is a certain routine called?

Integration with the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor

The    VAX  Source  Code  Analyzer  is  tightly  integrated  with  the  VAX
Language-Sensitive Editor.    All  the analyzer commands are available from
within an editing  session and the user is able to directly make changes to
the corresponding source code. 

The  VAX  Language-Sensitive Editor  together  with  the  VAX  Source  Code
Analyzer provides the software professional  with an integrated source code
development  and  maintenance environment and provides  the  capability  to
interactively EDIT-COMPILE-DEBUG-NAVIGATE-ANALYZE source code all from with
a  single  interactive  development  session  when  used with  one  of  the
supported VAX language compilers. 
 
VAX Language Interfaces
 
The VAX Source Code Analyzer interfaces to supported VAX  languages  (refer
to Table 1 for supported VAX languages) for source code  navigation, cross-
reference, and  static  analysis.    Supported  VAX  languages  provide  an
/ANALYSIS qualifier that  instructs  the  compiler  to  generate  a file of
compile-time source code information.   This file is used by the VAX Source
Code Analyzer for source code cross-reference, navigation and analysis. 
 
Features Include:

Cross-reference Features

-  FIND command for providing interactive  cross-reference  of  symbol  and
   source file information.  It provides the following capabilities:
	 
   ^  Locate names and occurrences of names

   ^  Limit the query to a specified  set  of  names or partial names where
      wildcards are permitted. 

   ^  Limit the query to specific characteristics (such as routine or macro
      symbols, or source or library files). 

   ^  Limit  the  query  to  specific  occurrences  (such  as   primary  or
      associated  declarations of a symbol, read or write occurrences of  a
      symbol, or require occurrences of a file).

Analysis Features

-  The  VIEW CALL_TREE command shows routine call relationships relative to
   a specified  routine.    Limits  can  be  set  on  depths of inquiry and
   recursive calls are indicated.

-  The CHECK CALL  command  validates routine calls relative to the primary
   declarations of a routine.  It checks the numbers and types of arguments
   passed as well as the types of return values.

Library Features

-  CREATE LIBRARY command initializes a Source Code Analyzer library.

-  LOAD command loads the compiler-generated information into a Source Code
   Analyzer library.

-  SET LIBRARY command selects the libraries  to be used during the current
   analyzer session.

-  SHOW LIBRARY command displays the directory specification of the current
   active library.

-  REORGANIZE command optimizes the size and organization of the library.

-  VERIFY command checks the integrity of the data in a library.   

-  SHOW MODULE command displays current module information including module
   name, identifier, and compilation date. 

-  DELETE  MODULE  command  deletes  specified  module of source data  from
   library.                                                                 
 
Query Navigation (when used with the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor)

The user can navigate through source code information and directly edit the
source code.

-  NEXT,  PREVIOUS command moves to the appropriate option displayed in the
   query buffer as follows:

   ^  NAME specifies a uniquely named symbol or file.

   ^  ITEM specifies a symbol or file associated with the current name. 

   ^  OCCURRENCE specifies an  occurrence  of  the  current item associated
      with the current name.

-  GOTO SOURCE command displays  the  source  code  that corresponds to the
   current symbol occurrence.                                              

Although  full  Source  Code Analyzer  functionality  is  provided  by  its
integration with the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor,  including  the editing
of the corresponding source code, most Source  Code  Analyzer  features are
available directly from the DCL command level interface. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 27.63.04-x).


SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*                                                   

For systems using terminals:  (No DECwindows interface)

VMS Operating System
VAX Language-Sensitive Editor

For workstations running VAX Worksystem Software:

VMS Operating System      
VMS Workstation Software  
VAX Language-Sensitive Editor

Note: For  full use of the  VAX  Source Code Analyzer features described in
      this SPD, at least one of  the VAX languages listed below is required
      as  well  as  the  VAX  Language-Sensitive  Editor.        (The   VAX
      Language-Sensitive  Editor  is not required to initially install  the
      VAX Source Code Analyzer.)

                  VAX Ada             VAX FORTRAN 
                  VAX BASIC           VAX PASCAL  
                  VAX BLISS-32        VAX PL/I    
                  VAX C                           
                  VAX COBOL                                                 

Note:   Certain features of  this product are not  available when using
	language pre-processors such as those supplied  for VAX Rdb/VMS
	and VAX DBMS.  Please consult your local DIGITAL representative
	for additional information.                                    

*Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions
 of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 27.63.04-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION     

Software Licenses: QL-VC6A*-**                                  
Software Media: QA-VC6A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VC6AA-GZ
Software Product Services:  QT-VC6A*-**

*Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses,
 services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This  software  is  furnished under the licensing  provisions  of  DIGITAL's
standard  Terms  and  Conditions.    For  more information  about  DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product  supports the VMS License Management Facility.  License
units for this product  are  allocated  on  a  CPU-capacity basis.  For more
information on the License Management  Facility,  refer to the VMS Operating
System  Product  Description  (25.01.xx)  or  the    VMS   Operating  System
documentation set.

For  more information on DIGITAL's licensing policies,  contact  your  local
DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are  available  from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product  is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
this SPD.


May 1989
AE-JE74E-TE

