PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Software Performance Monitor,     SPD 27.56.07
               (VAX SPM), Version 3.2
DESCRIPTION

VAX SPM is a software performance management facility for VAX
and VAXcluster systems.  It collects, displays, reports, and graphs 
performance information useful in system tuning, trend analysis, 
and workload forcasting. This information includes resource 
utilization and load balance data for single node, multi-CPU, and 
VAXcluster systems.  VAX SPM software is designed for use by system 
managers and system programmers.
                                                         
VAX SPM provides a flexible facility for collecting and archiving 
performance data.  Data may be collected using a variety of 
user-specified parameters. The user can start and stop data 
collection for all nodes in a VAXcluster system from a single 
terminal, and archive all the performance data in a single file.  
Note that a VAX SPM licenses is required for each node where data is 
collected.

                          
Video displays dynamically show a variety of statistics using bar 
charts, Kiviat plots, and numerical data.  These can display data 
for a single node, or summary information for all nodes or 
accessible disks (up to eight concurrently) in a VAXcluster  
system. The latter is particularly useful for balancing the 
workload across  several nodes or disks.  Single node data may be 
displayed for the currently running system, or played back from a 
log file; VAXcluster system data must be from the currently running 
system.
                                         
VAX SPM tabular reports and graphs contain the level of detail 
necessary to quantify system resource utilization (CPU, memory, and 
I/O), and identify system performance bottlenecks.  Proper analysis 
of these may reveal under-utilized resources that can be traded 
against a bottleneck. Graphs and reports of data collected over 
long periods of time show long-term trends in resource utilization.  
These are helpful in planning future hardware acquisitions.
        
Features
            
System Tuning
                    
VAX SPM collects and reports performance data pertinent to 
analyzing and tuning a VAX system, including: system 
configuration data; system parameters; resource utilization 
statistics - CPU, memory (including   swapping, paging, and 
modified page writing), and device; scheduling, locking, file 
system, lock manager, and SCS data; and process statistics.  The 
user controls parameters such as:  start and stop time, sample 
interval, and the node(s) for which to collect data, in addition to 
the data items themselves.  Reports present the data in both 
tabular and graphic format (plotted against time).
                                                                      
The video displays are designed to help the user investigate 
performance problems on single processors and VAXcluster systems.  
There are single node displays for: system overview, memory, CPU, 
I/O, and load balance. Once a video display begins, subcommands may 
be issued to control the display and its characteristics, 
including: select displayed processes - top 12 by node, direct 
I/O, buffered I/O, page fault, or working set size; change scaling   
factor; and viewing time.  VAXcluster system displays show, for 
each node (up to eight concurrently): hard and soft page faults; 
system and task CPU time; memory and CPU utilization; and I/O rate.  

For each accessible disk (up to eight concurrently), the display 
shows: the I/O rate and disk's response time.  Multi-color displays 
are produced if an appropriate color terminal or monitor is used. 
The displays can be printed (monochrome) on an appropriate external 
graphics capable printer (e.g., LA75.)
                                    
The System PC Sampler shows where CPU time is spent on a single 
node. The program counter and processor status longword are sampled 
and recorded in a log file.  Reports delineate CPU usage by 
system/process address space,   access mode, IPL, system module, 
device driver, and user process.
                                                                 
The Event Trace Facility is suitable for collecting performance 
data beyond the standard VAX SPM data.  The user defines trace 
points within the VMS Executive and writes a data collector using 
subroutines supplied by the facility.  The facility also provides 
buffer and record management routines. This facility is 
particularly suited to testing the performance of system software 
(e.g., a user written system service or device driver.)
               
Planning for Continued System Growth
                                           
VAX SPM collects and reports information useful to a data 
operations manager in planning for additional hardware.  Data can 
be archived in a history file, which takes less disk space than the 
original log file(s).  The data can be kept for a long period of 
time (e.g., months or years) and retrieved and printed in reports 
showing long-term trends of resource utilizations and system 
behavior.  Information similar to that used for system tuning is 
kept for log term trend analysis, although typically with a longer 
sample interval.
        
Disk Volume Management
                              
This facility provides detailed usage information for ODS-2 disk 
volumes: volume attributes, the amount of allocated and free space 
as well as an indication of how fragmented it is, and a list of 
files with extension headers.
        
Resource Charge Back
                           
This facility reads a VMS accounting file and generates a 
charge back report showing the amounts and monetary values of the 
resources consumed by each user on the system. The report prices 
and comment information are specified by the user.
  
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
                                
VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the 
System Support Addendum (SSA 27.56.07-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System
  
OPTIONAL SOFTWARE 

None 

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of Prerequisite/Optional Software.  

ORDERING INFORMATION 

Software License: QL-850A*-**
Software Media: QA-850A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-850AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-850A*-**  

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
Warranty Addendum.
 
SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of 
DIGITAL's Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about 
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This product incorporates support for the License Management Facility 
(LMF) found in VMS.  For more information, refer to the documentation 
for this layered product or the VMS documentation.  License units for 
this product are allocated on a per-CPU basis.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more   
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

May 1988
AE-R419H-TE

