PRODUCT NAME:  VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.2            SPD 27.46.02


DESCRIPTION

The VAXcluster Console System (VCS) is a VMS layered software product which
provides console management services from a central point. This eliminates
the need for multiple hardcopy terminal devices to monitor the status of VAX
systems. 

The VAXcluster Console System allows a system manager or an operator to
manage up to 24 devices which can be: 

^  VAXcluster systems
^  Stand-alone VAX systems
^  Any other device that

   - sends ASCII data over an RS232C line
   - has an EIA console port
   - supports XON/XOFF and I/O buffering

Hence, PDP 11s, line printer servers or controllers, LAN bridges, and other
third party devices that meet the above requirements can be monitored from
one central location. VCS can be accessed from locally connected terminals or
remotely over the Ethernet. 

The VAXcluster Console System connects to the console port of each device
with a fiber optic link.  This connection consists of two fiber optic
converters, a power supply, and a connecting fiber optic cable.  One end of
the fiber optic link is terminated at the console port of the device serviced
by VCS.  The other end is terminated at the VCS host system in one of two
ways: 

^  Direct connection, i.e. connecting to a port of a serial line interface 
   device (DHV11, DHQ11, or DZQ11) within the VCS host system cabinet

^  Reverse LAT, i.e. connecting to a port of a DECserver 200 which is 
   accessible by the VCS host system over the Ethernet.  The DECserver 200 
   port must be mapped to a reverse LAT terminal device defined in the VCS 
   host system.

In addition to performing all startup, operator, and system management
functions, the VCS system also has these facilities: 

^  A data logger that collects and logs all console data from the devices 
   connected to VCS 

^  A data scanner that matches text strings in scan files with text received 
   to initiate scan event messages

^  Scan event processing to direct the operator's actions to devices 
   requiring attention

^  A layout editor to allow the operator to build an icon-based diagram of 
   the systems being managed

The operational nature of the VAXcluster Console System makes it a
requirement that the VAXcluster Console System host processor be a
non-clustered VAX system.  Thus, it is recommended that the VAXcluster
Console System not be a member of a CI VAXcluster system or a satellite
member of a Local Area or Mixed Interconnect VAXcluster system.  However, the
VAXcluster Console System can serve as the boot member of a Local Area
VAXcluster System. 

Operator Tools

Several tools are provided for the operator to effectively manage devices
with the VAXcluster Console System.  The MONITOR interface, the CONNECT
interface, and the REVIEW facility allow the user to manage one or all of the
connected devices. The RECORD and ACCESS interfaces run in the background,
performing other system management functions. 

^  The MONITOR interface

   The MONITOR interface is the primary operator interface, enabling access 
   to any system that is serviced by VCS, while simultaneously providing scan 
   event information of other systems.

   This interface utilizes a multi-window display format.  The main window
   displays the console data from one or more devices.  Other windows are for 
   event reporting and command entry.

   The user can perform these functions while in the MONITOR interface:

   -  View current and previous console data
   -  View current and previous scan event data
   -  Review historical console logs 
   -  Search for information from console logs
   -  Output commands to any connected device, or simultaneously to a series 
      of devices

^  The CONNECT interface

   The CONNECT interface gives access to the console port of a VCS-controlled 
   device, as if it were a directly connected terminal.

   All console functions can be done from this mode.  This interface should be
   used when the user wants to run programs that utilize cursor positioning
   software. 
 
^  The REVIEW facility

   The REVIEW facility allows the operator to specify particular time periods
   for retrieving historical console and scan event data.

   This can be done during a MONITOR session, or from DCL level which allows
   the output to be written to a file.  One or more nodes can be reviewed
   at a time.

^  The RECORD interface

   The RECORD interface writes console log data out to a hardcopy device.

   This can be activated for all nodes or for a specified series of nodes, 
   if a hardcopy console listing is desired. The output data includes:

   -  The time VCS started to receive the message
   -  The node name the message originated from
   -  The console message

   Data can be directed to any specified terminal.
	
^  The ACCESS interface

   The ACCESS interface is a programming interface that provides an alternate 
   method for capturing scan events for additional processing. The users can 
   write their own applications to be activated by the VCS ACCESS interface.

   The number of concurrent interface processes on VCS is not explicitly 
   limited by the software.  Performance of VCS will depend on many different 
   factors, such as:

   -  Number of serviced nodes
   -  Number of concurrent interface processes
   -  Types of interface processes and their activities
   -  Console activity of the serviced nodes
   -  VCS host system constraints in terms of 
      -  Physical memory size
      -  Swapfile space
      -  Pagefile space

Features

^  Support of up to 24 devices: either VAXcluster system nodes, stand-alone 
   VAX systems, or any device that sends ASCII data over an RS232 line, has an EIA
   console port, and supports XON/XOFF and I/O buffering.  The maximum
   supported console terminal speed is 9600 baud.

^  All data received from connected devices are logged by VCS and identified 
   by source node name and the time received by VCS.

^  Operators can connect to the console port of any node serviced by VCS from 
   any terminal connected to the VCS host.

^  VCS can control remote devices via reverse LAT connections over Ethernet 
   using DECserver 200 terminal servers.

^  Operators can remotely access the VCS host system via DECnet, LAT, or
   dial-up ports to perform VCS functions.

^  A security facility is provided to allow the system manager to restrict
   access to VCS-controlled devices.

^  VCS detects console events by scanning console text messages and comparing 
   them with predefined text strings contained in scan files.

^  With VAXstation host systems, VCS provides the ability to build an icon-based
   view of all the devices connected to it.  This graphic layout uses color 
   to indicate the severity of an event.  It also allows the user to easily 
   access a device's console by clicking with a mouse to activate a VCS 
   interface.
  
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support
Addendum (SSA 27.46.02-x).

Fiber optic cables and adapters as specified in the System Support Addendum.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

For VAX hosts:

VMS Operating System

For VAXstation hosts:

VMS Operating System
VMS Workstation Software  
                                    
OPTIONAL SOFTWARE*

DECnet-VAX
Terminal Server Manager

* Refer to the System Support Addendum (27.46.02-A) for availability 
  and required versions of Prerequisite/Optional Software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses:  QL-V01A*-**
Software Media:  QA-V01A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-V01AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-V01A*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum. 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

An initial four-node license is included with the purchase of the VCS
software.  This four-node license allows the VCS system to have up to four
devices (serviced nodes) connected to it.  Additional licenses may be
purchased in increments of four to accommodate an expanding data center. 

The license units are allocated on a User/Activity basis.  The user is
defined as a node or device controlled by VCS. 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License
units for this product are allocated on a User/Activity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set. 

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact
your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES 

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more
information, contact your local DIGITAL office. 


November 1988
AE-HV29C-TE


