PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Performance Advisor, Version 2.0     SPD 27.71.03

DESCRIPTION

The VAX Performance Advisor, VPA, is a VMS layered product that reduces 
the time and effort required to manage and monitor VAX system 
performance, as well as plan for future resource requirements.  It can be 
used with standalone VAX, VAXcluster and Local Area VAXcluster systems, 
as well as Mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems.

VPA gathers VMS system data and through the application of expert system 
technology, analyzes the data, identifies specific conditions causing 
performance degradation, and presents detailed evidence to support its 
conclusions.  Further, VPA provides recommendations for attaining 
improved system performance. 

In addition to its expert system analysis, the VAX Performance Advisor 
assists in capacity planning exercises by providing data archival and 
graphing capabilities for long term trend analysis, and performance 
modeling to determine future system performance given changes in workload  
or configuration.  

The components of VPA are:

oo Performance Knowledge Base and Rule Compiler

oo Analysis, Reporting and Graphing

oo Workload Characterization, Performance Modeling, "What If" Analysis, 
  and Prediction Reporting

oo Data Archiving and Data Extraction

oo Data Collection and Storage

Performance Knowledge Base and Rule Compiler 

The VAX Performance Advisor contains a knowledge base of rules and 
thresholds which it uses to analyze VAX system data.  VPA rules fall into 
five categories:  Memory, CPU, I/O, Cluster, and Miscellaneous.

The VPA knowledge base may be modified and expanded at the user's 
discretion.  To integrate new rules, modify existing rules, or 
reffectively turn off existing rules, the user creates an auxiliary 
knowledge base.  In subsequent analysis, the user can then specify the 
use of user created rules to augment VPA's factory rules.
  
Analysis, Reporting and Graphing 

VPA aids the system manager in monitoring system activities and in making 
performance evaluations by quickly identifying performance problems.  
Through its analysis, VPA will also identify potential bottlenecks and 
the specific device on which the bottleneck will occur.

VPA reports are generated at the request of the user and include:  the 
Analysis Report, the Performance Evaluation Report, VPA Graphs, and the 
Raw Data Dump Report.  VPA reports can be generated from either daily or 
historical data, with the exception of the analysis report which is 
generated from daily data files only.
      
Analysis Report  

The VPA Analysis Report contains conclusions drawn from the VPA analysis 
as well as recommendations for improving system performance.  In addition 
to identifying performance related problems and recommendations, the 
Analysis Report contains the conditions under which the identified 
problems occurred, along with supporting evidence to substantiate VPA 
conclusions.  The Analysis Report is generated from daily VPA data files 
and therefore, is most useful for daily and weekly system performance 
analysis.

VPA conclusions are generated when the occurrence threshold for the 
problem conditions is satisfied.  To gauge the activities in the system 
which are satisfying rule conditions but have not yet met the occurrence 
threshold, the Analysis Report also provides an Analysis Summary.  The 
Analysis Summary identifies the number of records processed, the number 
of records satisfying rule conditions, the number of records not 
satisfying rule conditions, and the number of conclusions generated.  

A Brief Analysis Report is also available, identifying the rules which 
fired during the analysis period, and a one line synopsis of the problem 
statement.  
  
Performance Evaluation Report  

The Performance Evaluation Report provides system statistics which can 
assist the system manager in gauging the impact of changes made to the 
system.  It is particularly useful in monitoring system performance after 
implementation of a VPA recommendation.  

This report provides summaries of disk and tape activity, CPU and memory 
utilization, as well as detailed statistics on workload data, 
interactive, batch, and network processes.  The Performance Evaluation 
Report is generated from either daily or archived data.
  
Specifically, the Performance Evaluation Report provides information on: 

oo Resource usages by all the images and/or users which were active during 
  the reporting time period

oo Summaries of workload characteristics for any user defined workload 
  classification, or for the default workload classification of 
  interactive, batch and network processes 

oo Summaries of workload characteristics by user-group and transaction 
  families.

oo Locking traffic summary

oo Summary tables of SCS data, including CI, NI, and Adapter statistics 
  for each SCS circuit.
 
oo Disk utilizations and summaries

oo Summary of tape activity for individual systems as well as cluster wide

oo CPU and memory usage summaries

oo Summary of pool resources by node

oo "Hot File" activity, as defined by the most frequently accessed  files 
  per disk.

Graphs 

VPA provides a facility to graphically represent the data which has been 
collected in the VPA database.  VPA graphing provides the system manager 
with "pictures" of the system's performance metrics and is a robust 
source of information from which a better understanding of resource 
utilization and overall workload characteristics is obtained.  A wide 
range of predefined graphs plus the ability to define custom graphs can 
be generated for a ReGIS or ANSI output device. 

System data may be graphed for any length of time, using either daily or 
archived data as the source.  This can be an effective way to study the 
long term performance trends of any VAX standalone or VAXcluster System. 

Dump Report
								         
This report provides data from the VPA database in user readable   
format.  The user may select to dump the full database record, or may 
choose to dump a portion of the database record, by selecting data from 
the following categories:
   
oo Metrics

oo Parameters

oo Processes

oo Disks and Disk Caches

oo Tapes
  
oo Communications 

oo System configuration and SCS
  
oo CPU

oo Rules

oo Hotfiles

Workload Characterization, Performance Modeling, "What If" Analysis, and 
Prediction Reporting

Workload Characterization

VPA allows the system manager to define the system's total workload in 
terms of manageable units which VPA will then report against.  Workloads 
and groups of workloads (workload families) are used in model generation 
and can be reported against in VPA's Performance Evaluation Reports or 
Graphics. 

Performance Modeling and "What If" Analysis

The VPA modeling component is used to predict performance of standalone, 
VAXcluster or Local Area VAXcluster systems, and to determine system 
performance levels for various workloads and configurations.  The 
performance statistics are provided in either summary or detailed reports 
and include:

oo Resource utilization

oo Response time
 
oo Throughput per transaction class as well as aggregate

oo Performance information for each CPU, HSC, disk, channel, adapter, and 
  CI or Ethernet bus for both current and projected workloads or 
  configurations

oo System level parameters 

When using the performance modeling component of VPA, a baseline model is 
first generated from the current data in the VPA database and can be 
validated against the data in the Performance Evaluation Report.

After validating the baseline model, the user can change parameters in 
the model input file through interactive prompting or by directly   
editing the model input file.  A new model output report will be  
generated, displaying the updated performance statistics based on the new 
information provided by the user.  The model input file can be directly 
edited to change the workload characteristics or  alter the 
configuration.  This process can be repeated as often as necessary until 
the user is satisfied with the performance of a given configuration and 
workload.  This is often referred to as "What If" analysis, as it allows 
the user to answer questions such as "what are the performance 
implications to my system if I increase workload x by 20%", or "What If I 
add another CPU to my VAXcluster system?"

Prediction Reporting

VPA provides a prediction reporting capability which automatically 
determines system performance based on an incremental workload of 25, 50, 
75, and 100 percent or until a system component becomes saturated.  This 
report also indicates the smallest workload at which a component will 
saturate, defined by 90% utilization.   Prediction Reporting identifies 
bottlenecks before they occur, thereby allowing the system manager to be 
proactive in eliminating bottlenecks and providing a consistent level of 
system performance to the user base.


Data Archiving and Data Extraction

Data Archiving

VPA provides data archiving capabilities so that the VMS performance data 
collected by VPA on a daily basis, can be used in long-term performance 
studies.  When VPA daily data files are archived, the resultant data 
files are known as history files.  History files, which can be used as 
the data source for generating Performance Evaluation   Reports, Dump 
Reports, Performance Models and Graphs, are created according to 
user-specified reduction scheme(s).  The user has   the ability to define 
specifically how the data will be archived by defining history file 
descriptor elements, such as the granularity,  periodicity, time 
interval, model data, workload family, retention period, schedule, and 
holiday schedule.  The size of the history  file is dependent on the data 
reduction scheme selected, with the most important element being the 
interval size defined.  The size of reduced data, in blocks, is about 10 
times smaller than it is in daily form.

Data Extraction

VPA provides data extraction procedures which may be called explicitly 
from user written programs.  This facility allows system and application 
programmers to call VPA library procedures for extraction of daily VPA 
data. VPA provides record definitions for the following languages:  Ada, 
BASIC, BLISS, C, DATATRIEVE, FORTRAN, LISP, MACRO, PASCAL, and PL/I. 

Data Collection and Storage 

VPA records VMS system data for subsequent processing by the VPA advisor. 
The data collector runs as a detached process and is activated at system 
start up.  VPA supports data collection and reporting for a maximum of 
1024 concurrent processes. 

VPA collects data according to a user defined schedule maintained in a 
schedule file; default collection is 24 hours per day, seven days per 
week. The data collection schedule should be consistent for each node in 
the VAXcluster system to ensure all critical pieces of system data are 
collected. The data collector will automatically shut off when the disk 
on which the raw VPA data files reside has insufficient free space. 

In a VAXcluster system, VPA uses the distributed lock manager to 
synchronize the data collection on all nodes. All data records will then 
contain a time stamp that is consistent across the entire VAXcluster 
system.  The database files have a default retention period of seven days 
unless otherwise specified by the user. 

Features

VPA provides capabilities for the user to effectively manage the 
performance of an existing system (performance management) and also to 
plan for future computer resources (capacity planning).  

Performance Management

oo VPA analyzes system workload data, identifies performance related 
  problems and provides recommendations for improved performance.

oo Users can effectively change existing VPA rules, turn off existing 
  rules, and add rules specific to their application or environment.

oo VPA identifies: future bottlenecks before they occur; processes which 
  may be using inordinate amounts of system resources; and the most 
  frequently accessed files per disk, often refered to as "Hot Files".

oo Access to the daily VPA data is available through a callable interface 
  which supports ten languages.

oo Graphical representation of VPA data files allows the system manager to 
  visually evaluate system performance.

oo Histograms of CPU utilization, disk I/O, memory utilization and 
  terminal I/O for each node in the VAXcluster system are available.

oo Support for single VAX processors, VAXcluster, Local Area VAXcluster, 
  and Mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems is provided.

oo Analysis of data can be performed from any VAX processor in the 
  VAXcluster system without system shutdown.

oo Data collection is easily defined by the user for automatic collection 
  of system performance data.

oo VPA analysis can be performed for a maximum of 1 week; VPA data can be 
  archived and presented for any length of time, in both report and graph 
  format.

Capacity Planning

oo System performance data can be archived and graphed for trend analysis.

oo Workloads can be grouped into meaningful categories; VPA will report 
  resource utilization for each grouping.

oo Performance modeling allows the user to understand the impact that 
  changes in workload or configuration will have on overall system 
  performance.

oo Performance modeling is supported for standalone VAX systems, 
  VAXcluster Systems and Local Area VAXcluster Systems.

oo "What If" analysis provides performance characteristics of the system 
  before actual changes are implemented.

oo Prediction Reporting identifies the workload at which system components 
  will saturate and performance bottlenecks will occur.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 27.71.03-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS * 

VMS Operating System 

* Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.71.03-x) for availability 
  and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses:  QL-VE5A*-**
Software Media:  QA-VE5AA-**
Software Documentation:  QA-VE5AA-GZ
Software Product Services:  QT-VE5A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media refer to the appropriate price book.
  
SOFTWARE LICENSING 
 
This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. 

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information on DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.  

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.
  
SOFTWARE WARRANTY 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum.

May 1989
AE-JQ15D-TE

