
PRODUCT NAME:  X25router, Version 1.0                     SPD 28.86.00

DESCRIPTION

For definitions of terms used in this SPD, refer to the section called
``Terms and Definitions''.

Introduction

The X25router provides either or both of the following functions for a
Local Area Network: 

^  Routing DECnet messages

^  Giving access to X.25 communications services

For routing purposes, Phase IV DECnet networks consist of a number  of
linked areas.  Each area is not limited to a specific geographic
region, but is often localized (such as a LAN in a building).  Packet
routing is handled by specified routing nodes, which may have to do
this task in addition to providing services to users.  Routing works
on two levels: 

Level 1   Among nodes within an area (called intra-area routing)

Level 2   From one area to another (called inter-area routing)

The X25router is a routing system that can act as a level 1 and/or
level 2 router. The system routes information over one LAN circuit,
any synchronous DDCMP circuits, and DECnet circuits established across
X.25 PSDNs. This gives other DECnet nodes on the LAN access to remote
nodes, and also relieves them of the routing overhead. 

The X25router can interface to one or more supported PSDNs (See Table
1), using them to carry DECnet traffic.  The X25router also acts as a
connector node to provide access to the PSDNs for any system on the
LAN which runs a supported VAX Packetnet System Interface (P.S.I.)
Access product. 

The X25router can be used in many different ways.  An example might be
as a level 2 router and a PSDN access point for a LAN,  connected to a
DECnet node in another area via DDCMP, to a public PSDN with remote
DECnet nodes in other DECnet areas, to a private PSDN with some DECnet
nodes in the same area, and with a point-to-point ISO 8208 connection.
In this case it would act as both a level 1 and level 2 DECnet router.

System Overview

The system is a combination of hardware and software.  The hardware is
the DEC MicroServer communications server that runs the X25router
software. 

Some major features of the complete system are:

^  Physical Characteristics

   -  A table top unit, which can also be rack or wall mounted

   -  Status display                                                      

   -  LAN and four synchronous ports 

   -  The four synchronous ports can be used in any combination of 
      DECnet DDCMP lines and X.25 connections.

^  Routing Capabilities

   -  Level 1 and/or level 2 Phase IV DECnet routing

   -  Ability to route messages between 63 areas, each of up to 1023
      nodes; these are maximum values permitted by the Digital Network    
      Architecture. Satisfactory operation in large networks requires     
      proper network planning. 

   -  Adaptive routing to and from the LAN, and using up to 63 other      
      DECnet (DDCMP or DLM) circuits over the synchronous links.
                                                                             
   -  Ability to communicate with remote Phase III nodes in the same  
      DECnet area.
                                                                             
   -  Path splitting, where there are two or more equal-cost paths
      between the X25router and the destination DECnet node.  For this
      feature, all the destination nodes must support out-of-order
      packet caching. 

^  Synchronous Line Capabilities

   -  Data speeds of up to 256K bits per second (see Table 3)

   -  V.24 interchange circuits

   -  V.28 (RS232-D), RS232-C, V.36/V.11 (RS449/RS422), V.10 
      (RS449/RS423), V.35 electrical interfaces

   -  CCITT (1980) X.21 for leased line services only

   -  Full modem control on all synchronous lines

^  DDCMP Capabilities

   -  Communicates with all supported synchronous DIGITAL DDCMP
      products excluding the DMC11 

   -  Ability to work on point-to-point or multipoint links.  However, 
      on DDCMP multipoint links, the X25router can act only as a 
      tributary.

   -  Full- or half-duplex communications

^  X.25 Capabilities

   -  Can connect to multiple supported PSDN(s) on a per-line basis      

   -  Can have more than one connection to a PSDN; each connection	
      must have a unique DTE address, and the X25router can share 
      outgoing calls between all the DTEs connected to a network         

^  Network and Configuration Management Capabilities

   -  Configuration using a utility on the load host                     

   -  Remote management from any suitable DECnet node using the DECnet 
      Network Control Program  

   -  Remote problem diagnosis (for example, using the TRACE tool)

   -  Automatic attempt to dump and reload following a system failure

   -  Event logging to any Phase IV DECnet node

   -  Dynamic reconfiguration while the system is running

X.25 Capabilities

The X.25 capabilities fall into two groups:

^  As a packet-mode DTE connected to a supported PSDN (Refer to Table 1)

^  As one end of a point-to-point connection that uses ISO 7776 and
   8208 standard protocols. The X25router can act as either the DTE or
   DCE. 
   
   Note: The X25router does not provide any packet-switching exchange 
         facilities. 

Some of the major features of the X.25 capabilities are:

^  Conformance to CCITT recommendations X.25 (1978, 1980, 1984), and to
   ISO standards 3309, 7776, and  8208 (Refer to the section called 
   ``Standards Conformance'' for more information)

^  Uses LAPB or LAPBE as the frame-level data link protocol              

^  Ability to split and recombine messages that are longer than the 
   packet size of a DECnet DLM circuit					

^  Routes non-DECnet traffic from a PSDN to one or more VAX P.S.I. 
   Access nodes on the LAN.  The network manager has full control over 	
   which node the incoming call is routed to.

^  Can communicate over both PVCs and SVCs                               

^  Can maintain up to 512 virtual circuits, one for each incoming or 
   outgoing SVC or PVC, and one for each DECnet DLM circuit active, 
   depending on the configuration of the packet-level parameters         

Accounting and Security

Each VAX P.S.I. Access node using the X25router maintains accounting
information for each virtual circuit in use. No additional accounting
information is collected by the X25router. 

VAX P.S.I. Access nodes can provide security checks for both inbound
and outbound calls. No additional security features are provided by
the X25router for P.S.I. Access connections. The X25router provides
security mechanisms for incoming DECnet DLM circuits. 

Supported Public Networks

Table 1 lists the public PSDNs that the X25router can be connected to.
The product is supported only on the individual networks in the          
countries shown. Connections to networks outside this list are            
customer-supported only.  Refer to Table 1 at the end of this 
document.                                                  

Network and Configuration Management                                     

The network manager can create and modify the configuration databases    
by using utilities that are part of the load host software. The          
configuration database is loaded into the X25router during system        
initialization.                                                          

The manager controls the running system by using the DECnet Network      
Control Program from any DECnet Phase IV node.  For example, the
manager can use the utility from one of the systems on the LAN.
Management of the X.25 part of this product is restricted to VMS
or MicroVMS systems. 

The utility provides three basic functions:

^  Display statistics and error information for the X25router (for 
   example, statistics on line usage or errors)					

^  Control the X25router (for example, starting and stopping lines, 
   setting parameters, and loading the software)

^  Test the components of the network (for example, loop messages through
   all or part of a communications path to isolate a defective component)

In addition, a separate utility, available on VMS and MicroVMS
load hosts, assists problem-solving by tracing information at various
stages in its path through the X25router. 

Host Systems

The X25router has no file storage of its own, and so relies on host 
systems to:

^  Load the software

^  Log events

^  Receive any memory dumps

The minimum requirement is for one host to load the DEC MicroServer.
Event-logging and dump reception facilities can be used at the
discretion of the customer. Only a DECnet Phase IV node on the same
LAN can be a load host or dump receiver. 

It is recommended that X25router software can be installed on a number
of load hosts. This helps to protect against loss of service if a
single load host is unavailable, or unable to load the system for any
other reason. Each load host must be on the same LAN, but not 
necessarily in the same DECnet area as the X25router. 

Conformance To Standards

The X25router conforms to the following international standards:

^  CCITT recommendation X.25 (1978, 1980, or 1984) using the             
   LAPB or LAPBE variants of the data link and X.25 packet protocols

^  ISO standards 7776 and 8208

^  ISO standard 3309 for HDLC frame generation and recognition (BSC
   framing is not supported) on the X.25 ports

The hardware can operate with a number of electrical interface
standards (Refer to Table 3).  The X25router provides only the           
electrical interface of a DTE rather than a DCE, and does not provide
clock signals.  An external clock source (such as a modem) is required
for any X.25 or DDCMP synchronous port. 

The X.25 recommendation covers a wide range of optional facilities.
Table 2 lists these facilities and indicates whether the X25router
supports each of them.  The center column is the paragraph number in
the X.25 recommendation (1984) that defines the facility. 

The features in Table 2 are those that the X25router is capable of
supporting, when used with a VAX P.S.I. Access product that also
supports each feature.  However, individual PSDNs may not support all
these features.  In these cases, you will not be able to use the
facilities the PSDN does not provide.  The product documentation sets
out the specific facilities available on each supported public PSDN.     

Refer to Table 2 at the end of this document.

Performance And Configuration

The X25router can be set up in a number of ways.  The number of
synchronous links supported on the system depends on the maximum line
speed in use. Table 3 shows the number of lines supported for each        
combination of line speed and electrical interface type.

                     Table 3
        Number Of Synchronous Lines Supported

                                  Maximum Line Speed
Interface                               (Kbps)
Type                              19.2    64    256

V.28/V.24 (RS232-C/D)              4      -      -
V.36/V.11 (RS422/RS449)            4      4      2
V.10 (RS423)                       4      4      -
V.35                               4      4      2
X.21 leased line                   4      4      2

The actual packet rate will be less than that indicated by the
aggregate synchronous line speed, and is determined by such factors
as: 

^  Type of traffic (routing updates or data packets) and data rates

^  Proportion of DDCMP to  X.25 traffic, and the packet-sizes and the
   ratio of DECnet (DLM) to non-DLM traffic, for X.25 links

^  The path of messages through the X25router system (LAN-to-LAN, 
   synchronous-to-LAN, or synchronous-to-synchronous)

^  Communications line characteristics

^  Frequency and type of errors on the synchronous links

^  Network topology

^  Applications

^  Protocol overhead

Terms And Definitions

This SPD uses the following terms:

DCE     Data Circuit Terminating Equipment. The X25router can act as a
        DCE only as one end of a point-to-point DCE-DTE link using ISO
        protocols.

DLM     Data Link Mapping. This allows DECnet messages to be sent over
        X.25 links.

DTE     Data Terminal Equipment.  The X25router can act as a DTE when
        connected to a PSDN, or at one end of a point-to-point DCE-DTE
        link using ISO protocols.

HDLC    Used here to denote the method (not the protocol) used to	
        generate and recognize frames.

ISO	International Standards Organization				

LAN     Any local area network that conforms with the Ethernet, IEEE 
	802.3 or the ISO 8802-3 standards.                                

LAPB    The variant of the X.25 frame level protocol used in the 	
	X25router.

LAPBE   The name used to denote LAPB with extended sequence numbering.

PSDN    Packet Switched Data Network that conforms to the CCITT
        recommendation X.25 (1978, 1980, or 1984) and/or to the ISO
        7776 and 8208 standards.

P.S.I.	Packetnet Systems Interface (Packetnet is a DIGITAL trademark)

PVC     Permanent Virtual Circuit

SVC     Switched Virtual Circuit

PREREQUISITE SUPPORT

A Network Profile and DECnet Customer Support Plan covering all
intended network nodes and their support may be required by your
DIGITAL office. 

INSTALLATION

DIGITAL requires that a customer's first purchase of the product
include DIGITAL Installation Services. These services provide for
installation of the software product by an experienced DIGITAL
software specialist. 

Only customers experienced with DIGITAL's X.25 products should attempt    
second or subsequent installations. DIGITAL recommends that all other     
customers purchase DIGITAL's Installation Services.                       

The DIGITAL installation service consists of:

^  Installation of the X25router software on one load host

^  Configuration of one X25router unit on that load host

^  Installation verification using one connection to one supported PSDN  

Customer Responsibilities

In some cases, the X.25 network supplier (or PTT) may impose
restrictions, limitations, or requirements on the proposed DIGITAL
network configuration.  The customer must ensure that they understand
and adhere to these controls for each and every network. 

Before the software is installed, the customer must:

^  Previously have installed all requisite software and hardware
   (including terminals needed for the installation)
   
^  Obtain, install, and demonstrate as operational any modems and other 
   equipment and facilities necessary to interface to DIGITAL's 
   communication equipment.
   
^  Demonstrate where necessary that modems used meet the appropriate 
   interface standards.

^  Designate one adjacent node to verify connectivity for                   
   any synchronous DDCMP circuits.

^  Subscribe to the Open User Group and to at least two SVCs to be        
   able to complete the product's installation checkout (this             
   test loops information from the X25router to the PSDN and back to the  
   X25router). Systems that use PVCs or Closed User Groups only, or where 
   the PSDN does not support calls to the same DTE address, require       
   specially negotiated arrangements for DIGITAL installation of the      
   product. 

^  Make available for a reasonable period of time all the hardware        
   (including terminals), software, and communications facilities needed  
   during the installation. This period of time is mutually agreed        
   between the customer and DIGITAL. 

Delays caused by failure to fulfill any of these responsibilities will
be charged at the then prevailing rate for time and materials. 

Courtesy Installation Service

This software product will be installed by DIGITAL at no additional
charge if you purchase it concurrent with a Startup Service Package       
that includes installation service.  This service may not be available    
in all countries. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System
Support Addendum (SSA 28.86.00-x).

DEC MicroServer as specified in the System Support Addendum.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

For each VAX System acting as a load host or dump receiver:

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

DECnet-VAX (either end-node or full-function)

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE *

VAX Packetnet System Interface (P.S.I.) Access

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
  versions of the prerequisite/optional software (SSA 28.86.00-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses:  QL-VIAA*-**                                           
Software Media: QA-VIAAA-**                                               
Software Documentation:  QA-VIAAA-GZ                                      
Software Product Services:  QT-VIAA*-**                                   

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available
  licenses, services and media refer to the appropriate price book. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

The X25router is warranted for use only with supported Phase III and
Phase IV DECnet products supplied by DIGITAL.  Any system connected to
one of the X25router's synchronous DDCMP links, or attempting DECnet
communication via a PSDN, must run a current version of a DECnet Phase
III/IV product using any supported synchronous interface, but excluding
a DMC11 device. 

DIGITAL has designed or adapted the X.25 portion of this product to
operate with:

^  Equipment conforming to ISO standards 7776 and 8208

^  The public networks in the appropriate countries listed in Table 1

^  Certain private PSDNs, for which DIGITAL has included specific PSDN
   profiles in this product

DIGITAL cannot offer its standard warranty for this product unless it    
has been configured appropriately for the PSDN. If not, connections      
are customer-supported only.                                             

Each network and country pairing in Table 1 indicates DIGITAL's
commitment to supporting the X25router for that public service.
However, it does not imply that the appropriate networking authority
has granted network certification for the X25router. Please contact
your DIGITAL sales office for up-to-date information on certification    
status. 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software
Warranty Addendum.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

You will need a separate license for each DEC MicroServer unit on
which you will be using the software product (except as otherwise
specified by DIGITAL). 

The licensing provisions of DIGITAL's Standard Terms and Conditions 
provide in part that the software and any part thereof (but 
excluding those parts specific to the load hosts) may be used only on 
the single DEC MicroServer hardware unit on which the software is 
operated, but may be copied, in whole or in part (with the proper 
inclusion of DIGITAL's copyright notice and any proprietary notices on 
the software) between multiple load hosts on the same LAN.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL
office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

??????

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES 

A variety of service options are available.  For more information on 
these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office. 


                         Table 1
            Public PSDNs Supported By The X25router

Country             Public Network and         
                    CCITT Revisions            

Australia           Austpac
Austria             Datex-P
Belgium             DCS
Brazil              Renpac                                              
Canada              Datapac (1976 or 1980)
Denmark             Datapak
Eire                Eirpac (1980)
Finland             Datapak
France              Transpac
Hong Kong           Datapak
                    Intelpak
Italy               Itapac
Japan               DDX (1976, 1980) (1)                 
                    Venus-P (1980)
Malaysia            Maypac
Mexico              Telepac
Netherlands         Datanet 1
Norway              Datapak
Portugal            Telepac
Singapore           Telepac
South Korea         Dacomnet
Spain               Iberpac
Sweden              Datapak
Switzerland         Telepac (1978, 1980)
Taiwan              Pacnet
United Kingdom      PSS
United States       Accunet
                    Autonet
                    Infonet
                    Mark*Net Extended Service                            
                    Telenet
                    Tymnet
                    Western Union PTN-1
West Germany        Datex-P

Note:

1. DIGITAL offices in Japan can supply the mandatory additional 
   information that explains the special use of the X25router with 
   the DDX PSDN.

Unless otherwise acknowledged within the product's documentation, the
trademarks under which services are offered are proprietary to the
respective national PTT, the owning or operating companies, or
equivalent organization. 


                              Table 2
           Optional X.25 Facilities Supported by the X25router                 

  Optional Facility               Paragraph Number      X25router
                                  in CCITT X.25 (1984)  Support

 1. Extended packet sequence numbering         6.2        Yes
 2. Non-standard default window size           6.10       Yes
 3. Default throughput class assignment        6.11       n/a
 4. Packet re-transmission                     6.4        See Note 1
 5. Incoming calls barred                      6.5        n/a
 6. Outgoing calls barred                      6.6        n/a
 7. One-way logical channel outgoing           6.7        n/a
 8. One-way logical channel incoming           6.8        Yes
 9. Closed user group (CUG)                    6.14.1     Yes
10. CUG with outgoing access                   6.14.2     Yes
11. CUG with incoming access                   6.14.3     Yes
12. Incoming calls barred within CUG           6.14.4     Yes
13. Outgoing calls barred within CUG           6.14.5     Yes
14. CUG selection                              6.14.6     Yes
15. CUG with outgoing access selection         6.14.7     No
16. Absence of both CUG selection facilities   6.14.8     Yes
17. Bilateral CUG                              6.15.1     Yes
18. Bilateral CUG with outgoing access         6.15.2     Yes
19. Bilateral CUG selection                    6.15.3     Yes
20. Reverse charging                           6.18       Yes
21. Reverse charging acceptance                6.19       Yes
22. Local charge prevention                    6.20       n/a
23. Network user identification                6.21       Yes
24. Charging information                       6.22       Yes
25. RPOA selection                             6.23       Yes
26. Hunt group                                 6.24       See Note 2
27. Call redirection                           6.25       n/a
28. Called line address modified notification  6.26       Yes
29. Call redirection notification              6.27       Yes
30. Transit delay selection and indication     6.28       Yes
31. On-line facility registration              6.1        No
32. Non-standard packet size                   6.9        Yes
33. Flow control parameter negotiation         6.12       Yes
34. Throughput class negotiation               6.13       Yes
35. Fast select                                6.16       Yes
36. Fast select acceptance                     6.17       Yes
37. D-bit modification                          6.3        No
38. Abbreviated address                         -          n/a
39. Datagram queue length selection             -          No
40. Datagram service signal logical channel     -          No
41. Datagram non-delivery indication            -          No
42. Datagram delivery confirmation              -          No
43. Call statistics (non-X.25)                  -          See Note 3

Notes:

1. This is not applicable to a DTE. This product does not support
   the reception of a level 3 Reject packet, and will not generate
   one.

2. The individual DTEs must be assigned their own addresses
   independent of the hunt group address.  The X25router can then
   ignore the hunt group. Alternatively, each line can be configured 
   as if it were connected to a separate PSDN each with the same DTE 
   address. In either case, all the lines must be connected to the 
   same X25router. 

3. This product does not generate these statistics. However, a
   VAX P.S.I. Access node can obtain those supplied by the PSDN
   through the programming interface.

4. The X25router does not support the following items of the CCITT 
   X.25 recommendation:

   ^  Multi-link protocol
   ^  Use of the D-bit in outgoing packets

August 1988
BH-KP96A-TN
