 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4         SPD 27.30.05

           DESCRIPTION

           ALL-IN-1 is a customizable, menu-oriented software product
           that provides generic office applications and a facility for
           integrating other business-oriented applications. ALL-IN-1
           unifies these applications into an easy-to-use, menu-driven,
           information system.

           Through ALL-IN-1's electronic mail and links into Digital
           Equipment Corporation's networking facilities, users can trans-
           port or receive information that has been created on desk-
           top, departmental, and corporate systems.

           ALL-IN-1 consists of:

           o  ALL-IN-1 Office Applications

           o  VAX FMS (includes both FMS and Forms Language Transla-
              tor)

           o  Message Router VMS Gateway (includes both the Message Router
              and the Gateway to VMS Personal Mail Utility)

           o  CDA Converter Library for VMS (required for use with CDA
              Support)

           o  ALL-IN-1 PC Server for VMS (license only)

           o  VAX Notes and ALL-IN-1/VAX Notes Interface (Group Con-
              ferencing)

           o  Optionally installable System Update Software - a col-
              lection of corrected base system modules that address prob-
              lems or improvements requested by users of ALL-IN-1 V2.4.

                                    DIGITAL           September 1991

                                                         AE-HI10F-TE

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           o  Optionally installable WPS-PLUS, Version 4 editor fea-
              tures.

           ALL-IN-1 provides an environment in which users access ap-
           plications in a consistent manner. Users' documents are stored
           in folders in the user's file cabinet where they are accessed
           from the office applications.

           The generic office applications are built upon the base sys-
           tem facilities. These facilities are available when customiz-
           ing or developing applications that are to be consistent with
           the ALL-IN-1 environment.

           o  Office Applications

           o  Document Processing

           The Document Processing application enables users to cre-
           ate, edit, print, delete, and read documents. The editor used
           is dependent upon the user's preference indicated in the User
           Profile. ALL-IN-1 users have a choice of three editing styles:
           EDT, WPS, and WPS-PLUS.

           EDT and WPS are both ASCII editors. EDT uses keying conven-
           tions and terminology that make it oriented towards the more
           technical user. WPS uses keying conventions and terminol-
           ogy that make it a subset of WPS-PLUS. WPS is available to
           users who have a word processing orientation but desire ASCII
           output.

           The optionally installable WPS-PLUS for ALL-IN-1 is Digi-
           tal's full function word processor. Highlights of the WPS-PLUS
           features are:

           o  Insert or Overstrike Mode

           o  User control of margins and tabs, including left-justified,
              right-justified, and decimal-aligned tabs

           o  Automatic Centering, Underlining, Bolding, Double Under-
              scoring, Change Bars, and Redlining

                                       2

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           o  Technical Characters and Scientific Equations editing

           o  Support for Wide Documents up to 256 characters

           o  Numbered Footnotes, Paragraph Numbering to nine levels,
              Automatic Table of Contents generation, Table of Author-
              ities, and Word Indexing

           o  Widow/Orphan control and No-break Blocks

           o  Column Cut and Paste

           o  List Processing and Sort to produce form letters and main-
              tain mailing lists

           o  Abbreviation and Library documents

           o  Two-dimensional Editor for creation of diagrams and equa-
              tions

           ALL-IN-1 includes an integral WPS-PLUS, Version 3.1 editor.
           Customers may optionally choose to replace this version with
           the new version of WPS-PLUS features, Version 4.0.

           This new version significantly expands the capabilities of
           WPS-PLUS by providing true proportional spacing, font se-
           lection, support for PostScript[R] output, a new multi-column
           editor (up to 25 Left/Right margins within a ruler), the abil-
           ity to create and/or edit up to 10 documents at one time.
           User Enhancements include a more versatile status line, "Start"
           and "End" Control Blocks inserted together with a single keystroke,
           and many more.

           Electronic Messaging

           The Electronic Messaging application provides a means of ex-
           changing messages with other users. The user can create, edit,
           print, delete, read, and send messages. The ``envelope'' or
           message header (which contains addressee(s), subject, and
           mail classification) and the text of the message can be edited.

                                       3

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           When creating a message, the user specifies the addressee(s)
           to whom the message is to be sent and, optionally, any ad-
           dressee(s) to receive copies of the message. To save time
           with addressing, the user can create distribution lists or
           nicknames (seen only by the user). Incoming messages can be
           forwarded and/or answered. Answers can be directed to the
           sender only, or to all the recipients of the message. Con-
           firmation that the addressee(s) has received and/or read the
           message can be requested. Priority for delivery of the mes-
           sage can be assigned as Express, First Class, or Second Class.
           The user can specify the sending of a message be deferred
           to a time chosen by the user.

           Messages appear and are treated as documents to the user.
           ALL-IN-1 maintains folders for incoming, read, created, and
           sent messages. Once a message is sent, one copy of that mes-
           sage is shared (per system or cluster) by the sender and re-
           ceiver(s) and cannot be edited. Messages can be re-filed and
           cross-filed in the user's file cabinet. Documents already
           in the file cabinet can be sent to other users.

           The user can choose to have all incoming messages automat-
           ically forwarded to another user. Alternatively, the user
           can create a reply message that is sent in response to all
           incoming mail (for example, "I am out of the office until.
           . . .").

           Two styles of user interface are provided. One interface uses
           menus similar to other ALL-IN-1 applications and the other
           interface (hard-copy mode) is utilized, for efficiency, mainly
           over dial-up lines. This mode does not display the full screen
           menu but displays the menu in a strip form.

           Exchange of messages with ALL-IN-1 users on other systems
           in a DECnet network is provided by Message Router for VMS.
           Message Router VMSmail Gateway allows ALL-IN-1 users to ex-
           change messages with users of the VMS Personal Mail Util-
           ity. Refer to the Message Router for VMS Software Product
           Description (SPD 26.33.xx).


                                       4

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           Time Management

           Time Management offers the facility to maintain a personal
           calendar of events and tasks. An ``Events at a Glance'' screen
           gives the user an editable picture of the day's events, which
           makes it easy to make changes. Likewise, the ``Tasks at a
           Glance'' screen gives the user an editable picture of the
           tasks for the day. These pictures are combined on an ``Events
           and Tasks'' screen where other Time Management operations
           can be performed.

           Users can tailor Time Management and display only the screens
           and options that are of interest to them.

           Users can schedule, reschedule, or cancel an event. In an
           event involving other attendees, Time Management uses the
           Electronic Messaging application to deliver meeting noti-
           fications and confirmations. Users can also reserve unavail-
           able time on their calendars. An entry in the user's cal-
           endar can be marked confidential and other users cannot read
           the description of the entry. Recurring events can be sched-
           uled whereby an attendee's "Yes" reply schedules all occur-
           rences of the meeting on the calendar.

           Time Management has the ability to perform a multi-node scan.
           This scan will return a graph of potential attendees' free
           time prior to the scheduling of the meeting. It will scan
           both local and off-node calendars in real time.

           The Tasks facility is provided to track reminders, to-do lists,
           action items, and so forth. Tasks are not necessarily tied
           to a specific day or time of day. Tasks can be viewed by se-
           lection criteria such as: open versus closed, a range of be-
           ginning dates, deadlines, and so forth.

           Communications

           The Communications application enables users to access other
           computer systems without needing to understand anything about
           communication technology.

                                       5

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           For more knowledgeable users, entire communications sessions
           can be automated through the use of Control Documents (Con-
           trol Documents are standard ALL-IN-1 documents that contain
           a set of special commands). Connection to other computer sys-
           tems is fully automated if autodial modems or hardwired con-
           nections are permitted. The connection is by means of a VMS
           terminal port (RS232 type) and can be connected to any com-
           puter system supporting such terminal types.

           Facilities are also provided to transfer files to and from
           a DECmate II, DECmate III, VMS, and in or out of the user's
           file cabinet.

           Desk Calculator

           The Desk Calculator enables the user to perform interactive
           calculations and include the results in documents. Desk Cal-
           culator operates in two modes: Calculator and Formula. For-
           mula mode is used for complicated formulas that combine trigono-
           metric and arithmetic functions. Calculator Mode is used for
           simple arithmetic computations. The alternate keypad is op-
           erated the same way as a standard calculator.

           File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

           The ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet is similar in function to a stan-
           dard office filing cabinet; documents are contained within
           folders. Folders are in alphabetical order and documents within
           the folders are in order by date and time of creation. The
           latest document is listed first, except for the INBOX where
           the latest document is listed last.

           Documents are grouped together in user-specified folders.
           Information (such as title, date created, document number,
           author, keywords, and type) associated with each document
           is maintained in the filing cabinet. When a document has mul-
           tiple cross-filings, only one copy of the document body is
           stored.



                                       6

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket un-
           til the Wastebasket is emptied.

           A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of documents
           or contents of the user's screen can be temporarily placed.
           Contents of the scratch pad can be inserted into a document,
           edited, printed, mailed, or read.

           The File Cabinet provides access to documents through a com-
           mon mechanism regardless of the format of the documents. Sup-
           port is provided as standard for ASCII, DX, and WPS-PLUS for-
           mats.

           Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and man-
           age the contents of the filing cabinet. The user can print
           or delete more than one document at a time. Selection of the
           documents can be made with user-specified criteria.

           Documents (individual or by folder) can be re-filed, cross-
           filed, or duplicated. Information such as title and asso-
           ciated keywords can be changed.

           ALL-IN-1 provides a feature that allows the user and sys-
           tem manager to archive/restore any ALL-IN-1 document from
           the shared areas or from a user's file cabinet.

           Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Support

           ALL-IN-1 provides support for the following new data types:

           o  DDIF - the standard CDA encoding format

           o  DOTS - the format for packing and transferring compos-
              ite CDA documents

           o  DTIF - the CDA encoding format for tables

           o  PS - the final form PostScript document format

           Users will be able to send and receive these document types
           in mail, store them in their filing cabinet, read, print,
           copy, and convert them.

                                       7

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           ALL-IN-1 will allow the new datatypes to be read, with the
           exception of PostScript. The quality of formatting of the
           displayed data depends on the CDA facilities provided by the
           underlying VMS system. For VMS V5.1 and V5.2, ALL-IN-1 uses
           the RMS text extension mechanism, which produces minimally
           formatted text. This method ignores external references from
           DDIF documents and only shows the main document. For VMS V5.3
           - V5.4, ALL-IN-1 uses the CDA character cell formatter, which
           gives improved results with correct formatting and the in-
           clusion of externally referenced files. ALL-IN-1 automat-
           ically uses the appropriate mechanism depending on the un-
           derlying VMS version.

           Note: Upgrading to VMS V5.3 - V5.4 requires that ALL-IN-1
           be re-linked to pick up the new CDA functionality.

           ALL-IN-1 will attempt to print CDA documents in PostScript
           if the destination printer is capable of it; otherwise, ALL-IN-1
           will convert the document to text before printing.

           The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to/from
           the new datatypes.

           If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a stan-
           dard editor, the normal handling will result in a message
           telling the user that the document format is not supported
           by the editor. However, the user may convert a CDA document
           into a suitable format for editing and then use the appro-
           priate editor. Through conversion, there is a potential for
           formatting attributes to be lost.

           Application programmers will have access to the new CDA tools
           through the provision of new API functions.

           Directories






                                       8

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           The Directories subsystem provides access and maintenance
           to directories available to the user. The user can view a
           directory, maintained by the system manager, that contains
           telephone numbers and addresses. A directory of all the ALL-IN-1
           users can also be viewed.

           Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and view
           a personal telephone directory, nicknames, and distribution
           lists.

           With the installation of Distributed Directory Service, ALL-IN-1
           provides the user with the ability to perform mail direc-
           tory searches on defined criteria such as name, department,
           location, and organization.

           Group Conferencing

           ALL-IN-1 V2.4 introduces Group Conferencing. An ALL-IN-1 user
           interface has been applied to Digital's VAX Notes applica-
           tion to provide the Group Conferencing feature.

           This feature gives users the ability to communicate on a many
           to many basis while taking advantage of ALL-IN-1's ease of
           use. Application developers can benefit from VAX Notes be-
           ing integrated at the API level in developing business or
           professional-specific applications that can use this Con-
           ferencing capability.

           System-Wide Features

           Menu Navigation

           Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus. Ex-
           perienced users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

           The user can interrupt their current activity to read a new
           mail message, display the current time, or to access Time
           Management, Directories, Desk Calculator, and Scratch Pad.



                                       9

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           Users familiar with VMS commands can have direct access to
           the commands without leaving ALL-IN-1.

           Help

           Users can invoke Help for any part of ALL-IN-1 by pressing
           the HELP key. The HELP facility provides basic information
           on the function in question without the user having to ref-
           erence the documentation.

           On-line Training

           Users can learn how to use the system using the on-line Train-
           ing facilities. Training leads the user through sets of in-
           teractive screens and explains how the various features of
           ALL-IN-1 work.

           User-Defined Processes

           User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated
           key sequences. There is no limit to the number of UDPs or
           the number of keystrokes that can be stored in a UDP. One
           UDP can invoke another UDP.

           Printing

           The Printing facility provides the user the ability to spec-
           ify where a document is to be printed, the number of copies,
           and the output format. The output can be directed to any of
           the printers available to the ALL-IN-1 user, another doc-
           ument, or to the user's terminal. Documents that specify Runoff
           handling are automatically processed by Digital Standard Runoff
           (DSR) before output. Printing is handled in the background,
           freeing the terminal for other actions when interaction with
           the print formatter is not needed.

           Job Services




                                      10

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           ALL-IN-1 provides users the ability to perform operations
           on their jobs in print, batch, and server queues. Using the
           multiple select indexing capability, users can get infor-
           mation on jobs, delete jobs, edit their attributes, and restart
           currently executing jobs.

           Profile

           Each ALL-IN-1 user has a user profile that contains infor-
           mation pertaining to the user.

           The user can access and modify part of their user profile
           including full name, address, telephone number, department,
           and title. In addition, user preference information (such
           as work week and working hours, editing style, mail noti-
           fication, and read receipt handling) can be modified.

           The System Manager maintains information such as user priv-
           ileges, default directory, and form library access.

           Index Select

           A user can create an index selection list by selecting or
           deselecting objects from the index. Operations (such as print,
           delete, cross-file, and so forth) can be on the list as if
           they were a single entity. An index menu lists the options
           available to the current selected index. Within an index,
           a user can scroll either forward or backward.

           International Support

           ALL-IN-1 is designed to support multi-lingual operations.
           This support is subject to availability of the specific trans-
           lation (refer to the System Support Addendum SSA 27.30.05-
           x). ALL-IN-1 can be deployed in a multi-lingual network and
           can support multi-lingual operations on a single system. How-
           ever, all language kits, including U.S. English, must be the
           same version.

           System Management

                                      11

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           The System Management utilities are used to perform routine
           maintenance of ALL-IN-1 such as scheduling and reschedul-
           ing of housekeeping procedures, management of printers, di-
           rect maintenance of network and DDS profiles, metering, and
           quota management of the shared area. A system manager has
           the option of creating a non-VMS privileged system admin-
           istrator to administer the management of the following: user
           accounts (create, delete, move, rename), document archiv-
           ing, system distribution lists, scheduling of housekeeping
           tasks, monitoring of ALL-IN-1 exception and information re-
           ports, and the initiation of ALL-IN-1 shutdown.

           ALL-IN-1 supplies a metering facility that provides system
           managers and ALL-IN-1 application developers the ability to
           define and create their own meters. Meters will record the
           number of times metering is called, CPU usage, Direct I/O,
           Buffered I/O, Page Faults, and application-specific metered
           resources.

           Customization and Application Development

           ALL-IN-1 is a form-driven system that uses the VAX FMS (Forms
           Management System). In conjunction with VAX FMS and VAX FMS
           Form Language Translator, the ALL-IN-1 Application Devel-
           opment utilities allow changes to be made to the ALL-IN-1
           system. ALL-IN-1 can be altered to fit customer-specific re-
           quirements and provides a platform for application devel-
           opment and integration. ALL-IN-1 provides a programming in-
           terface to common functions and mechanisms to pass control
           from one application or function to another (for example,
           Flow Control). These functions have been enhanced in ALL-IN-1,
           Version 2.4.

           The features within Customization Management allow system
           managers and application programmers to modify their stan-
           dard ALL-IN-1 system in a controlled and disciplined man-
           ner. It provides the ability to create, modify, index, and
           control customizations as well as providing a modification
           history record for each customization.


                                      12

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           For more information on VAX FMS, refer to the Software Prod-
           uct Description (SPD 26.10.xx).

           Server for ALL-IN-1 Clients

           ALL-IN-1 provides server support for PCs by implementing client
           /server technology. The license for ALL-IN-1 allows usage
           of the ALL-IN-1 PC Server for VMS. The Media Kit must be or-
           dered separately. For more details on the capabilities of
           the server and available clients, refer to the ALL-IN-1 PC
           Server for VMS Software Product Description (SPD 31.71.xx).

           IBM[R] 3270 Terminal Support

           ALL-IN-1 can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards on
           CUT mode terminals that are supported using the CMX04 op-
           tion card in a DECserver 550:

           o  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

           o  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

           o  102 Key Typewriter

           o  87 Key Typewriter

           The ALL-IN-1 Kit contains a 3270 keyboard Quick Reference
           Card showing the ALL-IN-1 functions.

           Documentation

           The following documentation is standard with ALL-IN-1:

           o  Read Me First

           o  System Management Guides:

              -  Release Notes

              -  Installation Guide

              -  Differences between ALL-IN-1 V2.3 and V2.4

              -  Administration Guide

                                      13

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


              -  Guide to Modifying Printer Tables

              -  Management Guide

              -  Mail Management Guide

              -  Group Conferencing Installation Guide

              -  CDA Converter Library Documentation Set

              -  Message Router Documentation Set

              -  VMSmail Gateway Documentation Set

              -  FMS Documentation Set

           o  VAX FMS V2.4 Installation Guide

              -  VAX FMS Form Driver Reference Manual

              -  VAX FMS Utility Reference Manual

              -  VAX-11 FMS Language Interface Manual

           o  On-Line Release Notes/Installation Guide: ALL-IN-1 Sys-
              tem Update Software

           o  On-Line Release Notes/Installation Guide: WPS-PLUS, Ver-
              sion 4.0 Option for ALL-IN-1 V2.4

           o  Application Development Reference Guides:

              -  Application Programmer's Getting Started

              -  Application Programmer's Reference Volume 1, 2

              -  Application Programmer's Guide

              -  Application Programmer's Mini Reference

              -  Application Programmer's Index

              -  User Interface Standards

              -  WPS-PLUS XAL

              -  Group Conferencing Programmer's Reference

                                      14

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           o  User's Reference Guides:

              -  ALL-IN-1 Getting Started

              -  ALL-IN-1 User's Reference

              -  WPS-PLUS Editor Functions

              -  WPS-PLUS List and Sort Processing

              -  ALL-IN-1 Quick Look-up Guide

              -  WPS-PLUS Accessing External Applications

              -  IBM 3270 Keyboard Quick Reference Card for ALL-IN-1
                 Functions

              -  Keyboard Layout Cards

              -  Group Conferencing User Guide

           o  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS User's Reference (on-line only)

           o  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Printer Characteristics (on-line only)

           o  Making the Transition to Proportional Printing

           Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased sepa-
           rately.

           For customers wishing to modify the documentation to reflect
           the customization of their ALL-IN-1 system, a Customizable
           Documentation Kit is available. The kit includes:

           o  Manuals:

              -  ALL-IN-1 Writer's Guide

              -  Customizing ALL-IN-1 Documentation and Help

           o  Source files on Magnetic Tape (9 track 1600 BPI (PE) in
              Runoff format):

              -  Getting Started

              -  Quick Lookup and User's Reference

                                      15

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

           In order to facilitate customization of ALL-IN-1, several
           source code modules are provided on all available distri-
           bution media for this product. This source code is provided
           without any warranty of any kind, either express or implied.

           Note: VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language is required if
           .B32, .BLI, or .REQ modules are to be used in customizing
           ALL-IN-1.

           INSTALLATION

           Only experienced customers should attempt installation of
           this product. Digital recommends that all other customers
           purchase Digital's Installation Services. These services pro-
           vide for installation of the software product by an expe-
           rienced Digital Software Specialist.

           For more information on additional service offerings, re-
           fer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.05-x).

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in
           the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.05-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System (DECwindows needs to be
              installed for CDA support)
           DECnet-VAX is required for multi-node support

           Note: ALL-IN-1 and ALL-IN-1 STARTER cannot coexist on the
           same system.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.05-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software.


                                      16

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           COUNTRY COMPONENT SOFTWARE

           For information on country-specific modifications to this
           product, refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.30.05-
           x).

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-AAA**-**
           Software Media: QA-AAA**-**
           Complete Documentation Kit: QA-AAA**-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-AAA**-**

           Additional Documentation

           ALL-IN-1/US Management Documentation:
              QA-AAAAB-GZ

           ALL-IN-1/US AP&I Documentation Kit:
              QA-AAAAC-GZ

           Customization Kit: QA-AAAAD-GZ

           WPS-PLUS, Version 4.0 Option End User's
              Documentation Kit: QA-AAAAK-GZ

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.





                                      17

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05


           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use plus Personal Use basis.

           This layered product offers a Personal Use license. Each Per-
           sonal Use license allows one identified individual to use
           the layered product.

           In addition, ALL-IN-1 provides a Personal Licensing Report-
           ing Tool. System Managers and Administrators can easily rec-
           ognize when the authorized (purchased) personal license limit
           has been reached or exceeded.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of services and options are available from Dig-
           ital. For more information, contact your local Digital of-
           fice.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.





                                      18

 



           ALL-IN-1, Version 2.4                       SPD 27.30.05



           [R]   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Inc.

           [R]   IBM is a registered trademark of International Busi-
               ness Machines Corporation.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, ALL-IN-1, CDA, CI, Com-
               pacTape, DEC, DECchart, DECdx, DECdx/RSTS, DEC-
               mate, DECnet, DECpage, DECnet-VAX, DECtalk, DECterm,
               DECwrite, DECserver, DECstation, DECwindows, DDIF,
               DX, EDT, LA50, LA75, LJ250, LN03, LN03 PLUS,
               LN03R, LQP02, LQP03, MicroVAX, PrintServer, Pro-
               fessional, Rainbow, RSX, TOPS-20, TK, VAX, VAX-
               cluster, VAXft, VAXmate, VAX DATATRIEVE, VAX FMS,
               VAX Notes, VAX RALLY, VAX TEAMDATA, VAX VTX, VAXs-
               tation, VAXserver, VMS, VT, WPS, and WPS-PLUS are
               trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.























                                      19
