 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows, Version 1.0 SPD
     33.22.00

     DESCRIPTION

     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows provides a DECwindows style
     User Interface for ALL-IN-1, as well as extensions to ALL-IN-1
     functionality. It works in conjunction with and assumes that
     ALL-IN-1 V2.4 resides on the same system.

     The ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows provides ALL-IN-1 users
     on X-Windows supported devices an alternate choice of user
     interface. Users can select either push button or pull down
     menus at any time during their ALL-IN-1 session, or can choose
     to use the standard FMS forms user interface.

     Additionally, ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows allows compound
     document processing within ALL-IN-1 by allowing DECwrite to
     be used as an editor from the word processing menu. Documents
     created with DECwrite from ALL-IN-1 can easily be stored in the
     ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet.

     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows further enhances the CDA sup-
     port of ALL-IN-1 by providing nine viewer windows. Three windows
     are pre-assigned, allowing for:

     o  Full page DDIF, WPL, or text document viewing, including
        links, graphics, and images

     o  Electronic Mail message viewing

     o  Time Management Calendar viewing (Views can remain displayed
        while the user edits or performs other ALL-IN-1 tasks.)

                                  DIGITAL                January 1991

                                                          AE-PBCXA-TE

 


     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows, Version 1.0       SPD 33.22.00



     These three viewer windows can be customized. An additional six
     viewer windows are for optional site usage.

     Features

     The ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows provides:

     User Interface

     User Selectable - A DECwindows style pull-down or push button
     user interface in addition to the standard FMS forms user inter-
     face. The choice of user interface is selectable by individual
     user.

     User interface styles can also be customized.

     The following features describe the pull-down and push button
     user interfaces:

     Easy Navigation - Mouse point and click is supported on windowed
     menus. Users can simply click on the fields they want to modify
     rather than using the keyboard sequences required to navigate
     through the standard FMS forms. Additionally, the mouse can
     be used to select single and multiple documents and de-select
     single documents from Index forms. Selection from "Find" (Gold
     L) lists is made easier - the user clicks on the item they want
     selected and it is automatically entered in the correct field on
     the form.

     Pop-up Menus - Mouse Button 2 is implemented to provide a dis-
     played list of menu options and frequently used features. The
     user clicks on the option they want from the pop-up menu.

     Different pop-ups are available as follows:

     o  From a windowed menu, the pop-up lists the menu options.

     o  From an FMS form, the pop-up contains Return, EXIT key, Erase
        and Find, Erase Line, Find, GOLD MENU, Next Screen, Prev
        Screen, Interrupt (Gold I), and Help.

                                     2

 


     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows, Version 1.0       SPD 33.22.00



     The options selectable from the pop-up menu are all customizable
     by site.

     Menu Conversion

     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows includes a utility to convert
     ALL-IN-1 FMS menus into either pull-down or push button dis-
     plays. This provides an easy way to convert customized ALL-IN-1
     forms as well as FMS based layered ALL-IN-1 applications into
     DECwindows pull-down or push button displays.

     Compound Document Editing

     Access to WYSIWYG compound document editing from ALL-IN-1 is
     provided. Users can choose to use DECwrite when creating a
     document from the ALL-IN-1 Word Processing menu. When editing
     a previously created compound document, the DECwrite editor is
     automatically invoked. After the DECwrite session is completed,
     the resulting compound document can easily be stored in the
     ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet.

     This feature is only activated if DECwrite is available on the
     system. This feature is ONLY available from the Word Processing
     sub-system of ALL-IN-1.

     Viewer Windows

     Viewer windows allow the user to view documents, mail messages
     and Time Management schedules while pausing their other ALL-IN-
     1 tasks. The viewer windows may be resized, left open, or set
     aside as icons. The user can use the mouse, scroll bars, and
     push buttons to navigate through the viewer windows.

     Three predefined Viewer Windows are provided with ALL-IN-1
     Services for DECwindows:

     Document Viewer - This option from the Word Processing and Word
     Processing Index menus provides full page compound document
     viewing including graphics and multiple attachments. It displays
     the currently selected document in the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet.

                                     3

 


     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows, Version 1.0       SPD 33.22.00



     Electronic Mail Viewer - This option from the Electronic Mes-
     saging and Electronic Messaging Index menus provides viewing
     of mail messages including graphics and multiple attachments. A
     user can choose to display either the currently selected Mail
     Message or the next Mail Message in the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet
     Inbox.

     Time Management Calendar Viewer - This Viewer provides the user
     with a snapshot of their events or tasks. The following options
     are available from all of the Time Management menus:

     VEG - View any number of days events

     VET - View current days events and tasks

     VWE - View weeks events expanded

     VWG - View weeks events in a grid form

     VMO - View the month overview

     Up to six additional viewer windows can be added by site cus-
     tomization

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, DECstation or DECwindows terminal
     configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA
     33.22.00-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

     VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
     dows).

     CDA Converter Library for VMS

     ALL-IN-1 with all its prerequisite software as specified in SPD
     27.30.xx.

                                     4

 


     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows, Version 1.0       SPD 33.22.00



     *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 33.22.00-x) for
        availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
        software.

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software License: QL-YG4A9-QB
     Software Media: QA-YG4A*-**
     Software Documentation: QA-YG4AA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-YG4A9-**

     Denotes processor variant. For additional information on avail-
     able licenses, services and media, refer to teh appropriate
     price book.

     Use of DECwrite with this product is optional. Refer to DECwrite
     for VMS (SPD 25.F7.xx) for ordering information.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     The ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows license is available as a
     Personal User license.

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity.

     License units for this product are allocated on a Personal User
     License basis.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

                                     5

 


     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows, Version 1.0       SPD 33.22.00



     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available. For more information
     on these services, please contact your local Digital office.
































                                     6

 


     ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows, Version 1.0       SPD 33.22.00



     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]   MS-DOS is registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

     [TM]  X Window is a trademark of Massachusetts Institute of
           Technology.

     [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, DECnet, DECwindows, DECwrite, VMS,
           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver and ALL-IN-1 are
           trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

























                                     7
