
PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DIBOL, Version 4.1                 SPD 25.49.14

DESCRIPTION

VAX DIBOL is a high-level procedural language designed specifically for
interactive business data processing.  It runs under the VMS Operating 
System, taking full advantage of the system facilities.

VAX DIBOL is a superset of the DIBOL-83 definition.  VAX DIBOL is highly
compatible with DIBOL implementation on other operating systems including
CTS-300, RSTS/E, Micro/RSTS, RSX-11M-PLUS, Micro/RSX.                       

VAX DIBOL includes support for several tools and utilities on VMS including  
the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor, VAX Debugger, and the VAX Performance
Coverage Analyzer.

VAX DIBOL also includes support for the current American National Standard   
for DIBOL, as well as the 1988 ANSI DIBOL Standard, X3.165-1988.      

VAX DIBOL provides efficient terminal handling and efficient access to the
VAX Record Management Services (RMS).  RMS provides access to sequential,
relative and indexed file organizations.  The .INCLUDE directive allows
access to common record definitions stored in the VAX Common Data
Dictionary (CDD). Other facilities such as VAX DATATRIEVE, VAX DBMS, VAX
FMS and VMS Run-Time Library routines are available as external subroutine 
calls.

VAX DIBOL supports a set of language statements commonly referred to as
structured constructs.  These statements are designed to complement and
facilitate desirable programming practices.

The DIBOL compiler reads a source program and produces a shareable object
module.  The compiler is capable of producing a source listing with
embedded diagnostics and a cross reference listing.  Object modules
produced by the compiler conform to the VAX Procedure Calling Standard    
and may be linked with native mode object modules produced by other VAX
language processors.

The VAX DIBOL product includes a compiler, a run-time library, external
subroutine libraries, a message manager for communicating between programs,
a program to monitor the activities of the message manager, and programs
that provide access to the VAX SORT using command files that are compatible
with other DIBOL products.

VAX DIBOL also includes a menu facility, support for long file names (up to
39 characters in the ``name'' portion of the filespec) and an ISMCRE
subroutine which allows creation of RMS indexed files under DIBOL program
control.

The VAX DIBOL compiler generates debug records for use with the VAX
Symbolic Debugger, including support for source line debugging.

DIBOL Language Description

A DIBOL program is separated into two major parts:  a Data Division and a
Procedure Division.  The Data Division defines the data that is used by the
program.  The Procedure Division contains the executable statements.

The first element in most DIBOL statements is an English language verb that
characterizes the action to be performed.  The other elements of the
statement are data names, references to statement labels, and/or
expressions. DIBOL statements fall into the following categories:

^ Compiler  Directives - Provide information about the program to the
  compiler

^ Compiler Declarations - Provide information about the program structure
  to the compiler

^ Data Specification Statements - Define the data used in the program

^ Data Manipulation Statements - Perform conversions and value assignments

^ Control Statements - Modify the order of statement execution

^ Intertask Communications Statements - Allow communication between
  programs

^ Input/Output Statements - Move data between memory and I/O devices

Universal External Subroutine Library

This library contains external subroutines which are available and perform
similar functions on all DIBOL implementations.                            

Operating System-Specific Library

This library contains external subroutines which are available and perform
similar functions on one or more of the DIBOL implementations.  With VAX    
DIBOL, the library includes routines to perform functions such as position
the file pointer within a file, mounting/dismounting disk and tape units,
and locking the program into memory.

Run-Time Subroutine Library

This library contains external subroutines which are available only with
VAX DIBOL and provide functions which are unique to VAX. The library
includes routines to perform functions such as handling mailboxes,
converting data from one type to another, and returning device/file
information.
                                                                            
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System
Support Addendum (SSA 25.49.14-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS* 

VMS Operating System 
 
For VAXstation Systems:
                           
VMS Workstation Software

*  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.49.14-x) for availability 
   and required versions of prerequisite/optional software. 

ORDERING INFORMATION
                                                      
Software Licenses: QL-018A*-**
Software Media: QA-018A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-018AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-018A*-**

*Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
 services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

The software is furnished under the licensing provisions of 
Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT     

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to VMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License
Management Facility of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For  more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are  available.  For more information on these
or other services, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum
of this SPD.

The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment 
Corporation.

VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation, and Ethernet are trademarks of Digital 
Equipment Corporation.

April 1990
BH-M383P-TE           
