 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0            SPD 27.55.04

     DESCRIPTION

     VAX DOCUMENT is a style-based, batch-oriented, document composi-
     tion system. It is designed to aid VMS users in the production
     of single manuals, large documentation sets, or specifications,
     and it supports hardcopy and online output. VAX DOCUMENT runs on
     a wide range of Digital configurations, including VAXclusters.
     It can be used from any of Digital's standard terminals, and it
     can create files for hardcopy output to any Digital line printer
     or laser printer, or Bookreader files for online viewing on a
     DECwindows workstation.

     VAX DOCUMENT provides a complete, high-end documentation product
     that automates the production of large, format-intensive, tech-
     nical documentation - from the first entry of written material
     to the final output of formatted hardcopy or online documenta-
     tion. VAX DOCUMENT is designed for use by members of the team of
     people who contribute to a technical document during its life
     cycle; engineers, writers, editors, or final production spe-
     cialists. Facilities are provided to create, maintain, revise,
     format, and print complex technical documents efficiently. This
     provides greater control over the entire documentation process
     while reducing time-to-market and costs.








                                  DIGITAL               February 1991

                                                          AE-KN49E-TE

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



     Features

     Generic Markup Language

     VAX DOCUMENT uses a device-independent generic markup language
     for entering source text and markup instructions into ASCII text
     files. Using any VMS editor, the writer creates a documentation
     source file, enters the text, and inserts markup commands (tags)
     that label the text elements. Text elements determine the struc-
     ture of the document and refer to such things as headers, lists,
     or tables.

     The markup tags have no specific formatting information. VAX
     DOCUMENT stores the formatted information in a separate file
     that is used when the documentation source file is processed.

     Markup tags enable the writer to include graphic files in the
     final output document. VAX DOCUMENT supports sixel graphic files
     for the LN03 or LN03 PLUS printers and PostScript[R] graphic
     files for the LPS40 or LN03R printers. PostScript graphic files
     must conform to the Encapsulated PostScript File Format pub-
     lished by Adobe Systems Incorporated.

     The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor can be used in conjunction
     with VAX DOCUMENT to simplify the creation of documentation
     source files and to debug the markup code interactively.

     Multiple Document Designs and Styles

     VAX DOCUMENT supports a variety of document types and designs.
     The document type refers to the structure and text elements as-
     sociated with a particular document, for example a user manual,
     military specification, or letter. A design denotes a variation
     in the style of a document type and refers to such elements as
     running heads, running feet, and the typefaces and sizes for ti-
     tles, headings, and notes. VAX DOCUMENT provides document types
     and designs for:


                                     2

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



        SOFTWARE - The SOFTWARE document type can be used for produc-
        ing user manuals containing software-specific information.
        This document type provides many software-specific features
        such as: a set of tags to draw keypad diagrams, a set of
        tags to format system messages, and a structured set of tags
        (called templates) to document software commands, routines,
        and programming language statements. VAX DOCUMENT also pro-
        vides a design for specifications, as well as designs that
        are similar to those that Digital uses to produce its own
        documentation.

        MILITARY SPECIFICATIONS - The MILSPEC document type can be
        used for producing military specifications according to
        military standards. It includes a front page with a title
        and subtitle, a two-column list of signatures, and a listing
        of information about the specification.

        A design is provided to produce documents requiring security
        classifications, numbering of figures and tables by section
        number, 20 heading levels, one- to four-line running titles,
        single-line running feet, and the ability to use propor-
        tionally spaced fonts within code examples. This design is
        available in double-spaced format for draft documents.

        MANUALS - The MANUAL document type can be used for document-
        ing chapter-oriented material such as a book. VAX DOCUMENT
        provides designs for primer, guide, and reference manuals.

        OVERHEADS - The OVERHEADS document type lets the user produce
        overhead slides for transparencies or camera-ready masters
        for 35mm slides. This document type provides features spe-
        cific to presentation slides, such as automatic numbering
        of slides, title, topic, running heads and feet, and the
        capability to control the size of text.

        LETTERS - The LETTER document type can be used for producing
        a personal or business letter, or interoffice memos. The doc-
        type includes markup tags for an inside and outside address,
        salutation, closing, and enclosures.

                                     3

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



        ARTICLES - The ARTICLE document type provides many tags spe-
        cific to articles, such as author information, back notes,
        bibliography reference sections, and an acknowledgment sec-
        tion. The design is in two-column format in 8 1/2 x 11 page
        size.

        REPORTS - The REPORT document type provides features useful
        for producing chapter-oriented material (such as a book) or
        nonchapter-oriented material (such as a report or a study).
        It includes a front page with lines for sign-off signatures,
        outlining tags, and the capability to control numbered or
        unnumbered heads, running heads and running feet, and sequen-
        tial or chapter-oriented page numbering. Designs are provided
        for two-column text and for text that uses the full page
        width.

        ONLINE Doctypes - The online doctypes provide features to
        support the creation of online documentation to be viewed
        with the DECwindows Bookreader. VAX DOCUMENT supports the
        BOOKREADER destination and includes the following online
        doctypes:

           MANUAL.ONLINE
           SOFTWARE.ONLINE
           MILSPEC.ONLINE

        Note: VAX DOCUMENT offers the online MILSPEC doctype that
        emulates DoD standards on the Bookreader. This doctype is
        not a DoD standard, but only an online representation of the
        above standards.

     Customizable Document Designs and Styles

     The system administrator or book designer can customize the doc-
     ument types and/or designs provided with VAX DOCUMENT. Although
     the user cannot change the fundamental layout of most text el-
     ements, a variety of design parameters can be changed. These
     include:

     o  Parameters that control basic page dimensions

                                     4

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



     o  Fonts for text elements

     o  Vertical spacing around text elements

     o  Rule thickness

     o  Default text for element identifiers

     In addition, the positioning of certain text elements, such as
     figure captions, can be changed.

     Refer to the VAX DOCUMENT documentation for a complete list of
     Digital supported modifications to document types and designs.

     Page Composition and Pagination Software

     VAX DOCUMENT provides a powerful and sophisticated text format-
     ter. The capabilities that it provides include:

     o  Automatic numbering of headings, sections, lists, sublists,
        chapters, appendices

     o  Automatic pagination with page numbering

     o  Running headers and footers

     o  Footnotes

     o  Hyphenation and justification (right-justified or ragged-
        right)

     o  Complex multi-page tables and figures

     o  Multi-column output

     o  Horizontal rules, revision (change) bars, and update pages

     o  Automatic generation of table of contents and index

     o  Automatic cross referencing

     o  Kerning and variable leading

     o  Full Multi-National Character Set

                                     5

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



     o  Formatting of complex mathematical equations; from simple
        in-line equations to complex matrices

     Complete Bookbuilding Facilities

     VAX DOCUMENT contains software for processing a set of files to
     build an entire book, including a table of contents and index.
     The information required to build a book is contained in a user-
     created generic markup file that lists the names, the location,
     and the sequence of all the files.

     High Quality Output

     VAX DOCUMENT can be used to produce high-quality output with
     merged text and graphics for printing on the LN03, LN03 PLUS,
     LN03R, and LPS40 printers, or for online viewing on a DECwindows
     workstation.

     PostScript output is produced by taking advantage of the fonts
     resident in the LN03R and LPS40 printers.

     Fonts for the LN03 and LN03 PLUS printers are available from the
     DCS Library.

     Monospaced Output

     VAX DOCUMENT can produce output for printing or displaying on
     any Digital character-cell terminal and monospaced line printer.

     Enhanced HELP Capabilities

     VAX DOCUMENT includes DCL HELP for SDML tags and context-
     sensitive SDML help in LSE.

     Sophisticated Art-Generating Capabilities

     VAX DOCUMENT supports the creation of graphics for compound doc-
     uments and online documentation using the VAX DOCUMENT graphics
     editor. The VAX DOCUMENT graphics editor runs on a DECwindows

                                     6

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



     workstation allowing text and graphics to be created and main-
     tained separately. The graphics editor includes the following
     features:

     o  A DECwindows-based user interface to a comprehensive set of
        object-oriented graphics creation and editing functions.

     o  Full color capabilities.

     o  Screen capture and annotation.

     o  Viewer capability for rapid scanning of graphics files.

     o  Can submit graphics for hardcopy printing or inclusion in
        online documents.

     o  Provides a user-extendable clip-art library.

     o  The graphics editor can create the following types of file
        images:

           CDA DDIF images (import and export)
           Sixel (import and export)
           Bookreader format (import and export)
           PostScript (export)
           Xbitmap (import)

     New and Revised Documentation

     VAX DOCUMENT documentation is restructured to enhance usability
     in addition to supporting new features. The documents will also
     be available on the OLD CDROM for Bookreader viewing.

     VAX DOCUMENT enhancements include:

     o  Support of blank-page inserting for hardcopy printing on
        duplex devices.

     o  Support of ISO Latin-1 character set.

                                     7

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



     o  Support for documentation produced in 12 languages, including
        language-specific hyphenation and index sorting. Text gener-
        ated tags are also language specific (words such as "Chapter"
        or "Index"). Languages include Danish, Finnish, Swedish,
        Dutch, French, Canadian-French, German, Spanish, Portuguese,
        Italian, Norwegian, and English.

     o  Support for monospaced PostScript fonts to complement avail-
        able sizes for proportional text fonts.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.55.04-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VMS Operating System

     Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.55.04-x) for avail-
     ability and required versions of prerequisite/optional software
     and for information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software Licenses: QL-VEEA*-**
     Software Media: QA-VEEA*-**
     Software Documentation: QA-VEEAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-VEEA*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.






                                     8

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04



     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity.

     License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity
     basis.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
          Incorporated.



                                     9

 


     VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.0                           SPD 27.55.04




     [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, DEC, DECwindows, LN03, LN03 PLUS,
          MicroVAX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation,
          and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.



































                                    10
