 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4              SPD 25.03.28

          DESCRIPTION

          DECnet-VAX allows a suitably configured VMS system to partici-
          pate as a routing or end node in DECnet computer networks. With
          proper network planning, DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4 networks can
          contain up to 1023 nodes per network area and up to 63 areas per
          network. DECnet-VAX interfaces are standard components of VMS
          for use on a local standalone system.

          DECnet-VAX end node and full function products are licensed sep-
          arately for VMS. The DECnet-VAX License Product Authorization
          Key (PAK), when registered on a VMS system, enables communi-
          cation between different networked systems that use the same
          protocols.

          DECnet-VAX is a Phase IV network product and is warranted only
          for use with Phase III and Phase IV products supported by Digi-
          tal Equipment Corporation.

          DECnet-VAX offers task-to-task communications, file management,
          downline system and task loading, network command terminals,
          and network resource sharing capabilities using the Digital
          Network Architecture (DNA) protocols. DECnet-VAX communicates
          with adjacent and non-adjacent Phase III and Phase IV nodes
          (adjacent nodes are connected by a single communications line).

          VMS programs written in VAX MACRO and native mode high-level
          languages can use DECnet-VAX capabilities, but programs execut-
          ing in PDP-11 compatibility mode cannot use DECnet-VAX.


                                       DIGITAL                   July 1990

                                                               AE-NJ32C-TE

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          The network functions available to a DECnet-VAX user depend,
          in part, on the configuration of the rest of the network. Each
          DECnet product offers its own subset of Digital Network Archi-
          tecture (DNA) functions and its own set of features to the user.
          Networks consisting entirely of DECnet-VAX Phase IV nodes have
          all the functions described in this Software Product Description
          (SPD). Networks that combine different DECnet implementations
          may limit the functions available to the DECnet-VAX user on
          non-DECnet-VAX nodes since other DECnet implementations may
          not implement certain functions. Similarly, a user of another
          DECnet implementation may not be able to access all DECnet-VAX
          functions.

          The functions available to users on mixed networks can be de-
          termined by a comparison of the SPDs for the appropriate DECnet
          products.

          Routing

          A Full Function DECnet-VAX License PAK must be registered on a
          node in order for that node to operate as a routing node. For a
          node to operate as an end node, either the Full Function or the
          End Node DECnet-VAX License PAK must be registered on that node.
          Full Function DECnet-VAX software allows a node to be set up as
          either a routing node or as an end node.

          A DECnet-VAX node must function as a routing node whenever mul-
          tiple circuits are used by that node. Routing nodes maintain
          information on the paths to other nodes in the network. DECnet-
          VAX end nodes provide all the capabilities of DECnet-VAX routing
          nodes with the exception that end nodes cannot route messages
          on behalf of other nodes in the network. Since end nodes do not
          route messages, they do not need to maintain routing informa-
          tion. Consequently, end nodes initiate less overhead message
          traffic than routing nodes and, therefore, consume less process-
          ing power than routing nodes.



                                          2

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          Adaptive Routing is the mechanism which routing nodes use to
          ``adapt'' or choose other physical paths if the physical path
          the routing nodes are using fail or change line cost.

          In addition to adaptive routing, which all DECnet Phase IV
          implementations use, DECnet-VAX supports area routing. Area
          routing is a method by which DECnet can send and route mes-
          sages between the nodes in different areas of the network. Up
          to 63 areas with up to 1023 nodes per area are allowed. The
          network manager has the option of separating a network into
          areas. Area-based DECnet networks are hierarchical networks
          and some restrictions apply to communications from nodes in
          one area to nodes in another area. However, it is not required
          that all nodes in the network be DECnet-VAX or even Phase IV
          nodes. Proper network planning is essential when using area
          routing or configuring large networks. Valid topologies are the
          responsibility of the customer.

          Note: Only 32 routers are supported on an extended LAN.

          A DECnet-VAX node has the ability to communicate with a remote
          node over multiple circuits simultaneously, as long as those
          circuits are all of equal cost AND provide the lowest cost path.
          DECnet-VAX routing nodes will split transmission of a packet
          load to a destination node via multiple paths if those paths are
          of equal lowest cost. This capability is called Equal Cost Path
          Splitting. This feature can increase throughput of data by using
          all the best available paths. In order to take full advantage
          of this capability, all intermediate routing nodes should also
          support this feature and all destination nodes must support
          out-of-order packet caching.

          Standard DECnet-VAX Capabilities

          Task-to-Task Communication




                                          3

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          For most applications, task-to-task communication can be pro-
          grammed in a transparent manner where the remote task is treated
          as a full duplex, record-oriented device. Transparent operation
          is provided via the following interfaces: System Service calls,
          RMS calls (OPEN, GET, PUT, and CLOSE) and high-level language
          I/O statements (which are mapped to RMS calls). A nontransparent
          mode of task-to-task communication is offered by means of the
          System Service interface that extends the capabilities provided
          by the transparent mode. These capabilities include support for
          interrupt messages and multiple inbound connect requests.

          Using DECnet-VAX, a VMS program written in VAX MACRO or a native
          mode high-level language can exchange messages with other user
          programs. The two user programs can be on the same node, on
          adjacent Phase III or Phase IV nodes, or on any two non-adjacent
          Phase III or Phase IV nodes in the same network connected by
          Phase III or Phase IV routing nodes. DECnet-VAX imposes no
          special data formatting requirements on the user.

          Network Resource Access

          File Access - File access is supported to and from remote DECnet
          systems transparent to VAX MACRO and native mode high-level
          language programs using RMS. User programs can sequentially
          read, create and delete files on a remote node.

          Record Access - User programs can perform record level oper-
          ations such as GET, PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, FIND, and REWIND to
          access and modify files residing on a remote VMS node. In ad-
          dition to sequential access to a file, several other access
          methods are supported through RMS using DECnet-VAX. These meth-
          ods include random access by relative record number, random
          access by key value, random access by Record File Address (RFA),
          and block I/O access by virtual block number.

          Proxy Access

          Remote users can have access up to 15 proxy accounts on a spe-
          cific remote system. One proxy account should be designated as
          the default proxy account on the remote system.

                                          4

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          Command Language File Management

          Most VMS Digital Command Language (DCL) commands can be used
          to perform network file operations. These commands include:
          ANALYZE, APPEND, BACKUP, CLOSE, CONVERT, COPY, CREATE, DELETE,
          DIFFERENCES, DIRECTORY, DUMP, OPEN, PRINT, PURGE, READ, SEARCH,
          SUBMIT, TYPE, and WRITE. The operation of these commands is
          transparent except for commands which invoke processing on a
          specific system (i.e., SUBMIT/REMOTE and PRINT/REMOTE). Only a
          node name added to a file specification is required to invoke
          the network capabilities via one of these commands.

          Using the COPY command, a user can transfer sequential, rel-
          ative, and indexed-sequential (ISAM) files between DECnet
          nodes which support compatible file structures and record for-
          mats. Sequential or relative files with fixed length, variable
          length, or variable length with fixed control field records
          can be transferred between two VMS systems. Similarly, multi-
          keyed indexed files with variable or fixed length records are
          supported.

          The SUBMIT command allows command files residing on a remote
          node to be submitted for execution at the remote node. The com-
          mand file must be in the format expected by the node responsible
          for execution. Conversely, DECnet-VAX allows VMS command files
          to be received from other systems and executed.

          A new DCL command, EXCHANGE/NETWORK which allows for the trans-
          fer of files to or from heterogeneous systems is now available.
          This new command gives users the option to transfer file types
          between MS-DOS [R] or ULTRIX systems and VMS systems regard-
          less of record semantics. Unlike the COPY command which pre-
          serves file and record organization during a file transfer, this
          command enables the user to modify file and record attributes
          during file transfer.

          Downline System Loading

          ___________________

        [R] MS-DOS is registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

                                          5

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          DECnet-VAX allows for the loading of an unattended system using
          the services provided by the Maintenance Operations Module
          (MOM). MOM provides a set of maintenance operations over various
          types of circuits by using the Maintenance Operations Protocol
          (MOP). A loadable system is a system which has a load device
          enabled for MOP service functions and for which a properly
          formatted load file is supplied. Downline loading involves
          transferring a copy of the properly formatted load file image
          of a remote node's operating system from a VMS node to the
          unattended target node. For example, DECnet-VAX permits the
          user to load an RSX-11S Operating System file image from the VMS
          node downline to the target node. Load requests can come from
          the local DECnet-VAX operator or from the target node. Downline
          Loading is supported for Digital server products. However,
          this facility is not supported over asynchronous DECnet-VAX
          connections.

          Downline Task Loading

          Initial task images for loadable systems can be stored on VMS
          file system devices and loaded into remote nodes. Programs al-
          ready executing on loadable RSX-11S systems can be checkpointed
          to the host VMS file system and later restored to main memory in
          the RSX-11S node running DECnet-RSX. Overlays for RSX-11S tasks
          can also be stored on VMS file system devices. These features
          simplify the operation of network systems that do not have mass
          storage devices.

          This facility is not supported over asynchronous DECnet-VAX
          connections.

          Upline Dumping

          Memory images of adjacent RSX-11S nodes connected by DECnet can
          be written or dumped into a file on a VMS system. This facility
          helps a programmer understand what can cause the RSX-11S system
          to crash. This facility is also supported for Digital server
          products.

                                          6

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          This facility is not supported over asynchronous DECnet-VAX
          connections.

          Network Command Terminal

          The DCL command, SET HOST, allows a terminal user on one DECnet-
          VAX node to establish a logical connection to another DECnet-VAX
          node or other types of DECnet nodes that utilize the Hetero-
          geneous Command Terminal Protocol (consult the appropriate
          SPDs). This connection makes the terminal appear physically
          connected to the remote system and the operator can use all the
          standard system and network utilities supported by that remote
          node. This capability is particularly useful for doing remote
          program development, and allows the terminal users on smaller
          application-oriented systems to utilize the resources of larger
          development-oriented systems.

          VMS MAIL Utility

          VMS MAIL allows transmission of text messages between users of a
          stand-alone VAX system. The DECnet-VAX software allows users to
          send and receive VMS MAIL to or from users of other VMS systems
          that operate within the same DECnet network.

          VMS PHONE Utility

          The VMS PHONE Utility allows users to send and receive data
          interactively from one user's terminal to another user's ter-
          minal. DECnet-VAX increases the scope of PHONE to allow active
          users on different VMS systems in the same network to exchange
          information.

          VAXcluster Alias

          DECnet-VAX supports the ability to access some or all nodes in a
          VAXcluster using a separate alias node address, while retaining
          the ability to address each node in the cluster individually.
          Not all network objects may be accessed using this mechanism.
          More than 64 nodes may operate within a cluster, but the maximum
          number of nodes allowed to participate in the VAXcluster Alias

                                          7

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          are 64. Refer to the VAXcluster Software Product Description
          (SPD 29.78.xx) for relevant restrictions.

          At least one node in the VAXcluster must be configured as a
          router in order to use this feature.


































                                          8

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          Network Management

          The Network Control Program (NCP) performs three primary func-
          tions: displaying statistical and error information, controlling
          network components, and testing network operation. These func-
          tions can be performed locally or executed at remote Phase III
          or Phase IV nodes that support these functions. The NCP facility
          allows for planning, building, tuning, and controlling DECnet
          networks. NCP can be used to create and manage networks in-
          cluding local node operation, remote node operation, circuits,
          lines, and objects.

          An operator can display the status of DECnet activity at any
          Phase III or Phase IV node in the network. The user can choose
          to display statistics related to the node itself or the communi-
          cation lines attached to that node, including traffic and error
          data. The local operator can also perform many network control
          functions such as starting and stopping lines, activating the
          local node, and downline loading systems.

          DECnet-VAX provides network event logging to a terminal device
          or disk file. Any logged event can be used to monitor, diagnose,
          and tune a network. The NCP utility can be used to enable and
          disable the event logging facility.

          NCP can also be used to test components of the network. NCP
          enables transmission and reception of test messages over indi-
          vidual lines either between nodes or through other controller
          loopback arrangements. The messages can then be compared for
          possible errors. NCP allows performance of a logical series of
          tests that will aid in isolating network problems.

          Integrated Interfaces

          DECnet-VAX interfaces are standard parts of the VMS Operating
          System for use on local, standalone systems. Users can develop
          programs and procedures based upon these interfaces for such
          functions as file access and task-to-task communication on indi-
          vidual systems. Since the DECnet-VAX interfaces stay the same,

                                          9

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          the programs and procedures developed on an individual system
          can be used in a network environment without being modified.

          Communications Options

          DECnet-VAX uses synchronous, asynchronous, Ethernet, and CI
          communications controllers to interface with other network
          nodes. Synchronous controllers use DDCMP, either when directly
          connected or when connected via modems, to provide full or half
          duplex communications over point-to-point lines, or full duplex
          over multipoint lines. Asynchronous controllers use DDCMP,
          either when directly connected or when connected via modems,
          to provide only full duplex communications over point-to-point
          lines.

          Note: Error Correcting and data suppression modems are not
          supported. Refer to HARDWARE REQUIREMENT section for a short
          description of controllers.

          Asynchronous lines are supported only to other systems running
          DECnet-VAX, DECnet-RSX, PRO/DECnet, DECnet-Rainbow, DECnet-
          VAXmate and DECnet-DOS.

          DDCMP operation is not supported in cases where an asynchronous
          physical communication line is emulated by lower level protocols
          or communication subsystems. Examples of this include X.29
          virtual terminals, asynchronous connections as emulated by
          terminal servers, and connections via data switches.

          The Ethernet controllers allow DECnet-VAX to use Ethernet as its
          datalink transmission medium.

          The CIBCI, CIBCA, CI780 and CI750 employ unique protocols to
          provide services similar to those of DDCMP.

          VAX Packetnet System Interface (VAX P.S.I.) is the software
          product that provides an interface to X.25 Packet Switching
          Data Networks (PSDNs). When DECnet-VAX is used in conjunction
          with VAX P.S.I., DECnet-VAX can utilize a virtual circuit (SVC

                                         10

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          or PVC) of the PSDN as though it were a standard datalink to
          transmit messages between DECnet nodes.

          Note: Up to 128 X.25 virtual circuits are currently supported
          for Data Link Mapping (DLM), depending on CPU loading and ca-
          pability. Refer to the VAX P.S.I. Software Product Description
          (SPD 25.40.xx) for more detailed information.

          A VMS system can be used as either a control or a tributary node
          in a multipoint environment. DECnet-VAX supports a maximum of
          32 tributaries controlled by one or more DMP11 or DMV11 control
          stations on a single node; a maximum of 8 tributaries can be
          controlled on one DMV11 multipoint line: a maximum of 16 tribu-
          taries can be controlled on one DMP11 multipoint line. The DMF32
          may also be used with any UNIBUS VAX system as a tributary node.
          The DMP11 can be used in point-to-point communications configu-
          rations in DMC11 compatibility mode. The DMR11 is program com-
          patible with the DMC11 and is supported in DMC11 compatibility
          mode as well DMR11 mode.

          The maximum throughput for a specific tributary node is equal to
          the maximum aggregate data rate for the control node divided by
          the sum of the number of active tributaries plus one.

          When configuring your system with specific devices, please refer
          to the DECnet-VAX Load Unit Tables (included in this SPD) for
          calculating configuration loads and for support information.












                                         11

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          DECnet-VAX Operation

          DECnet-VAX is implemented under VMS as an Ancillary Control
          Process (ACP) and a network device driver with Digital-supplied
          executive-level components and user-level programs.

          The normal VMS protection has been incorporated in the operation
          of DECnet-VAX. For example, incoming connects including file
          access and file transfer requests are protected by the normal
          VMS login and file protection mechanisms. Outgoing connects
          including file access and file transfer requests can include
          user password information that is implicitly specified via NCP,
          or explicitly specified by the user for verification on the
          remote node.

          DECnet-VAX Configuration and Performance

          The process of configuring a DECnet-VAX node is based primarily
          on trade-offs of cost, performance, and functionality while sat-
          isfying the user's application requirements. It can be expected
          that network applications will range from low-speed, low-cost
          situations to those of relatively high performance and function-
          ality. The performance of a given DECnet-VAX node is a function
          not only of the expected network traffic and resultant process-
          ing, but also of the amount of concurrent processing specific
          to that node. Thus, node performance depends on many factors
          including:

          o  CPU type

          o  Number and type of devices attached to the particular CPU

          o  Number of device interrupts per unit time

          o  Communication line(s) characteristics

          o  Number and size of buffers

          o  Message size and frequency of transmission

          o  Applications in use

                                         12

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          o  Size and frequency of route-through traffic (routing nodes
             only)

          It is important to note that the rate at which user data can
          be transmitted (throughput) over a communications line can
          sometimes approach, but will never exceed, the actual line
          speed. The reason is that the actual throughput is a function
          of many factors including the line quality, protocol overhead,
          topology and network application(s), as well as the factors
          cited in this section.

          Refer to the DECnet-VAX Load Unit Tables for maximum system
          configuration information.

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          Notes: 1.   If a device is not listed, that device is not sup-
                      ported by DECnet-VAX.

                 2.   An * by a device description indicates that the
                      particular device is no longer offered as an option.

          Refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description
          (SPD 25.01.xx) for hardware requirements and processor support.
          Reference can be made to the configuration charts listed in
          the VMS Operating System SPD. For general device or controller
          descriptions, please refer to the Networks and Communications
          Buyers Guide.

          One of the following communication devices is required:

          DEUNA-AA       Ethernet controller interface.

          DELUA          Ethernet controller interface, minimum revision
                         level F1 required.




                                         13

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          DEBNA          Ethernet 802.3-to-VAXBI Port Controller interface
                         replacement for DEBNT. Concurrent use with DEBNT
                         is not supported. The TK50/Ethernet port option
                         is supported for concurrent TK50/Ethernet opera-
                         tion on packaged 8000 class workstation systems
                         only.

          DEBNI          Ethernet 802.3-to-VAXBI Port Controller inter-
                         face. Similar to DEBNA in configuration, with
                         increased performance, TK70 tape option disabled.

          DEMNA          Ethernet/802.3-to-XMI high-performance Port Con-
                         troller interface. Smaller footprint than DEBNI
                         in configuration, with increased performance over
                         the DEBNI.

          DMC11-AR,      Remote synchronous point-to-point interface, sup-
          -DA*           ports V.24/EIA RS-232-C, maximum speed 19.2 kilo-
                         bits/second, full or half duplex. Not supported
                         on DWBUA Adaptors.

          DMC11-AL,      High speed local point-to-point synchronous
          -MD*           interface, speed at 56 kilobits/second via coax,
                         full or half duplex. Not supported on DWBUA
                         Adaptors.

          DMC11-AL,      High speed local point-to-point synchronous
          -MA*           interface, speed at 1000 kilobits/second via
                         coax, full or half duplex. Not supported on DWBUA
                         Adaptors.

          DMC11-AR,      Remote CCITT V.35 point-to-point synchronous
          -FA*           interface, speed up to 56 kilobits/second via
                         modems (up to 250 kilobits/second via coax), full
                         or half duplex Not supported on DWBUA Adaptors.



                                         14

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          DMR11-AA       Remote point-to-point synchronous interface,
                         supports RS-423-A up 56 to kilobits/second or
                         RS-232-C up to 19.2 kilobits/second, half or full
                         duplex.

          DMR11-AC       High speed local synchronous interface with
                         integral modem for local connection, point-to-
                         point, half or full duplex.

          DMR11-AB       Remote CCITT V.35 synchronous interface, speed
                         up to 56 kilobits/second via modems (up to 1000
                         kilobits/second via local coax), point-to-point,
                         half or full duplex.

          DMR11-AE       EIA RS-422 synchronous interface, speed up to
                         1,000 kilobits/second (modem switch selectable
                         speeds: 56, 250, 500, 1000 kilobits/second),
                         point-to-point, half or full duplex.

          DMP11-AA*      EIA RS-232-C up to 19.2 kilobits/second or RS-
                         423-A (up to 56 kilobits/second) synchronous
                         communication interface; can be used as multi-
                         point control or tributary station; half or full
                         duplex; configuration limitations based on number
                         of tributaries.

          DMP11-AB*      CCITT V.35 synchronous communication interface.
                         Maximum data rate 56 kilobits/second; can be used
                         as multipoint control or tributary station; half
                         or full duplex; configuration limitations based
                         on number of tributaries.







                                         15

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          DMP11-AC*      Local synchronous communication interface with
                         integral modem (switch selectable speeds: 56,
                         250, 500 or 1000 kilobits/second; Maximum data
                         rate 500 kilobits/second FDX or 1000 kilo-
                         bits/second HDX; can be used as multipoint
                         control or tributary station; configuration
                         limitations based on number of tributaries.)

          DMP11-AE*      RS-422-A remote synchronous communication in-
                         terface. The maximum data rate is 1000 kilo-
                         bits/second; can be used as multipoint control
                         or tributary station; half or full duplex;
                         configuration limitations based on number of
                         tributaries.

          DMF32-LP       Synchronous point-to-point or multipoint (tribu-
                         tary only) line support for RS-232-C or RS-423-A
                         interface up to 19.2 kilobits/second, half or
                         full duplex. Asynchronous point-to-point only
                         line support for RS-232-C or RS-423-A interface
                         up to 9.6 kilobits/second, half or full duplex.
                         Supported on DWBUA adaptors.

          DSB32          Synchronous, 2-line, half or full duplex point-
                         to-point VAXBI communication interface supporting
                         DDCMP (1 or 2 lines up to 64 kilobits/second)
                         with full modem control.











                                         16

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          DMB32          VAX BI controller interface: T1012/H3033
                         half or full duplex synchronous point-to-
                         point only ports are compliant with RS232-C,
                         RS422A/RS449, V.11, X.27, and V.35 and are com-
                         patible with RS423A/RS440, V.28/V.24, V.10 and
                         X.26. T1012/H3033 asynchronous point-to-point
                         only ports are compliant with EIA RS232-C and
                         compatible with V.28/V.24. T1012 also compliant
                         with RS423-A, V.10, and X.26, but H3033 distri-
                         bution panel is not because of pin limitation on
                         the 25 pin D-type connector.

          DHB32          Asynchronous 16 line terminal multiplexer support
                         for EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A for BI based system
                         terminal connections. A maximum line speed of up
                         to 19.2 kilobits/second with limited or no modem
                         control for speeds above 9.6 kilobits/second and
                         for the RS-423-A interface is supported.

          DHU11          Asynchronous 16 line RS-232-C controller inter-
                         face, speed up to 9.6 kilobits/second, full modem
                         control.

          DZ11           Asynchronous 16 line support for EIA RS-232-C
                         or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second,
                         partial modem control.

          DZ32           Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C or
                         RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second,
                         partial modem control.

          DMZ32          Asynchronous 24 line support for EIA RS-232-C
                         or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second.
                         Modem support dependent on configuration.




                                         17

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          CI750-AA,      Interconnect for VAX-11/750 systems within a
          -AB            maximum distance of 90 meters. The effective
                         maximum data rate of the CI750 using DECnet-VAX
                         is limited to 1000 kilobits/second between any
                         pair of nodes.

          CI780-AA,      Interconnect for VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAX-
          -AB            11/782, VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 sys-
                         tems within a maximum distance of 90 meters. The
                         effective maximum data rate of the CI780 using
                         DECnet-VAX is limited to 1000 kilobits/second
                         between any pair of nodes.

          CIBCA          CI to BI interface Adaptor. The CIBCA-A ships
                         on 82x0, 83x0, 85x0, 8700, 88x0 and 62x0 and is
                         usable on those systems plus the 63x0 series. The
                         CIBCA-B ships on the 8700, 88x0, 62x0 and 63x0,
                         and is usable on those systems plus 82x0, 83x0.

          CIBCA          CI to BI interface Adaptor. The CIBCI ships on
                         82x0, 83x0, 85x0, 87x0 and 8800, and is usable on
                         all the above plus the 8810 and 8820N.

          MicroVAX and VAXstation system configurations ** require one of
          the following communication devices:

          Note:

          ** For VAXstation 2000 systems, only one on-board asynchronous
             data/modem RS-232C serial line is supported up to 9600 baud.

             For MicroVAX 2000 systems, up to 4 asynchronous data/modem
             RS-232C serial lines are supported up to 9600 baud. The
             asynchronous ports on the MicroVAX 3100 and VAXstation 3100
             are supported up to 9.6 kilobits/second with full modem
             control.


                                         18

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          DEQNA*      Ethernet Controller Interface - Minimum revision
                      level required is K3.

          DELQA       ETHERNET Controller Interface - replacement for DE-
                      QNA. Minimum revision level required is C3. DELQA
                      high performance ROM option (DEQTA) is also sup-
                      ported.

          DESVA       Ethernet controller interface for VAXstation 2000
                      and MicroVAX 2000 Systems.

          DESQA       Ethernet Controller Interface for MicroVAX
                      3300/3400/3500/ 3600/3800/3900 series, VAXserver
                      3300/3400/3500/3600 series, and VAXstation
                      3300/3400/3500 series systems. High performance
                      option (similar to DELQA ROM option) is supported.

          DSV11       Synchronous, 2-line, half or full duplex point-to-
                      point communication interface supporting DDCMP (1 or
                      2 lines up to 64 kilobits/second, or 1 line up to
                      256 kilobits/second).

          DIV32       Synchronous, full duplex point-to-point ISDN Basic
                      Rate Access (2B+D) communication interface support-
                      ing DDCMP (1 or 2 'lines' ie. ISDN B-Chanels at 64
                      kilobits/second multiplexed over the ISDN BRA inter-
                      face). The 16 kilobits/second ISDN D-channel also
                      supported by the DIV32 is reserved for Digital use.

          DSF32       DEC WANcontrollor 620 - Two line synchronous com-
                      mumications controller designed specifically for
                      the VAXft 3000 processors supporting DDCMP. DDCMP
                      is supported at speeds up to 64 kilobits/second per
                      line for a two-line operation.




                                         19

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          DMV11-AA    Point-to-point or multipoint (control or tributary
                      station) synchronous line support for EIA RS-232-C
                      up to 19.2 kilobits/second or RS-423-A (up to 56
                      kilobits/second) synchronous communication inter-
                      face; half or full duplex; multipoint configuration
                      limitations based on number of tributaries.

          DMV11-AF    Point-to-point or Multipoint (control or tributary
                      station) synchronous line support for RS-423-A/449
                      interface up to 56 kilobits/second; half or full
                      duplex; multipoint configuration limitations based
                      on number of tributaries.

          DMV11-AC    Point-to-point or Multipoint (control or tributary
                      station) synchronous line support used with integral
                      modem for local connection up to 56 kilobits/second,
                      half or full duplex; multipoint configuration limi-
                      tations based on number of tributaries.

          DMV11-AB    Remote point-to-point or multipoint (control or
                      tributary station) CCITT V.35 synchronous line
                      support up to 56 kilobits/second; half or full
                      duplex; multipoint configuration limitations based
                      on number of tributaries.

          DSH32       DEC TERMINAL/WAN CONTROLLER 581 - Combines DST32 and
                      DHT32 functionality. Asynchronous 8 line EIA RS-232-
                      C or RS-422/3-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second,
                      no modem control; and 1 line synch non-DMA DDCMP
                      support up to 9.6 kilobits per second, DEC and Bell
                      200 modem compatible for bit- and byte-oriented
                      protocols. Expansion adaptor required for MicroVAX
                      2000 systems. Concurrent use with DHT32 or DST32 is
                      not supported.




                                         20

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          DHV11       Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C or
                      RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, full
                      modem control.

          DHQ11       Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-
                      423-A interface up to 19.2 kilobits/second, with
                      limited or no modem control for speeds above 9.6
                      kilobits/second and for the RS-423-A interface.

          DHT32       Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-423-A inter-
                      face up to 9.6 kilobits/second, no modem control.
                      Concurrent use with DST32 is not supported.

          DST32       Synchronous single line support for DDCMP up to
                      9.6 kilobits/second, full duplex for MicroVAX 2000
                      systems. Concurrent use with DHT32 is not supported.
                      The DST32 is not supported on the VAXstation 2000.

          CXY08       Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C inter-
                      face up to 19.2 kilobits/second, full modem control,
                      for VAX 3000 series systems.

          DZQ11       Asynchronous 4 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-
                      423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, partial
                      modem control.

          DZV11       Asynchronous 4 line support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-
                      423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, partial
                      modem control.

          Note: The following RS-422/423 signals are not supported by the
          DECnet-VAX or VMS software:

             NS - New Signal
             SR - Signaling Rate Selector
             LL - Local Loopback
             RL - Remote Loopback

                                         21

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



             SS - Select Standby

          CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

          DECnet-VAX is fully supported when installed on any valid and
          licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions. The
          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS sections of the DECnet-VAX Software Prod-
          uct Description (SPD 25.03.xx) and the VMS Operating System
          Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx), detail any special
          hardware required or not supported by this product.

          VAXcluster software provides a distributed computing envi-
          ronment across a highly integrated set of VAX and/or MicroVAX
          systems that operate as a single environment. VAXcluster mem-
          bers can share many resources such as, disk and tape storage,
          CPU resources, and system management operations. Within this
          highly integrated environment, systems retain their independence
          because they use local, memory-resident copies of VMS. Thus,
          members can boot and fail independently while benefiting from
          common resources.

          *  VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXclus-
             ter Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI,
             Ethernet and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

          GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

          The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future ver-
          sion of this product may be different from the requirements for
          the current version.

          OPTIONAL HARDWARE

          Communication devices may be added from the device class list up
          to, but not to exceed, the maximum defined by the DECnet-VAX SPD
          Load Unit Tables or the limits imposed by a bounded CPU system
          as mentioned in the VMS Operating System SPD (25.01.xx).


                                         22

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

          o  VMS Operating System, V5.4
             Only the Base VMS Kit component is required.

          OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

          o  VAX Packetnet System Interface (P.S.I) V4.2

          o  VAX Packetnet System Interface Access V4.2

          o  VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers V1.1 Kit is required for
             any synchronous device operation.

          The VMS/ULTRIX Connection Software (UCX) can be installed to
          provide a TCP/IP environment on a VMS system. UCX includes
          capabilities such as file transfer (FTP), TELNET (X.25), Virtual
          Terminal support, and more. By purchasing and installing UCX,
          the TCP transport can be used without a PAK under a DECwindows
          environment. To use the FTP and TELNET applications, the UCX
          PAK must be installed in the License Management Facility (LMF).
          Refer to the VMS/ULTRIX Connection Software Product Description
          (SPD 25.A4.xx) for more information.

          VMS Tailoring

          For VMS V5.x systems, the following VMS class is required for
          full functionality of this system integrated product:

          o  VMS Required Saveset

          For more information on VMS classes and tailoring, refer to
          the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
          25.01.xx).





                                         23

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          INSTALLATION

          Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this
          product. Digital recommends that all other customers purchase
          Digital's Installation Services. These services provide for
          installation of the software product by an experienced Digital
          Software Specialist.

          Courtesy Installation Service

          This software product will be installed by Digital at no ad-
          ditional charge if you purchase it concurrent with a Startup
          Service Package that includes installation service. Both the
          host operating system and this product must be installed concur-
          rently.

          Customer Responsibilities

          Before Digital can install the software, the customer must:

          o  Ensure that system meets the minimum hardware and software
             requirements (as specified in the relevant SPDs).

          o  Prior to installing Digital hardware or software, obtain,
             install, and demonstrate as operational any modems and other
             necessary customer equipment or facilities to which Digital's
             communication hardware or software will connect.

          o  Designate one adjacent node to verify installation/connectivity.

          o  Make available, for a reasonable period of time, as mutually
             agreed upon by Digital and the customer, all hardware commu-
             nication facilities and terminals that are to be used during
             installation.

          Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities will
          be charged at the prevailing rate for time and materials.

          Installation for DECnet-VAX will consist of the following:

          o  Verification that all components of DECnet-VAX have been
             received.

                                         24

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          o  Verification that the necessary versions of the VMS software
             and documentation are available.

          o  Verification of the appropriate SYSGEN parameters.

             Note: Should a software specialist be required to modify the
             previously installed operating system parameters, a time and
             materials charge will apply.

          o  Create any necessary DECnet-VAX accounts and directories.

          o  Enable software via License Product Authorization Key (PAK)
             registration.

          o  Define and create a local node DECnet database.

          o  Modify the system's startup command procedure to include
             start up of the DECnet-VAX network.

          o  Verify the proper installation of DECnet-VAX by running a
             series of tests to show connectivity to a designated node.

          Connectivity to all other nodes within the network is the re-
          sponsibility of the customer. Digital recommends the use of the
          NCP facility to help verify connectivity.

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          DECnet-VAX software is shipped on the VMS Kit for all processors
          including MicroVAX-based processors.

          This software product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
          ity and will be enabled by a License Product Authorization Key
          (PAK) which is included as part of the purchase of a Single-Use
          License. License units for this product are allocated on a per
          CPU basis and not dependent on CPU Capacity or User/Activity.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
          to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
          25.01.xx) or the License Management Utility Manual included in
          the VMS Operating System documentation set.

                                         25

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          DECnet-VAX licenses also include the right to use VMS Services
          for PCs. VMS Services for PCs has separate documentation, me-
          dia kits, and service products. Refer to the VMS Services for
          PCs Software Product Description (SPD 30.50.xx) for further
          information.

          You will need a separate license PAK for each CPU on which
          you will be using the software product (except as otherwise
          specified by Digital). Then Materials and Service Options are
          selected to utilize the product more effectively. THE LICENSE
          OPTIONS ARE DESCRIBED BELOW. IF YOU ARE NOT FAMILIAR WITH THE
          SERVICE OPTIONS, YOU MAY OBTAIN THE APPROPRIATE SOFTWARE PRODUCT
          SERVICE DESCRIPTION(S) FROM YOUR LOCAL DIGITAL OFFICE.

          Base License Option Numbers for DECnet-VAX are:

          End Node      QL-D04A*-AA

          Full          QL-D05A*-AA
          Function

          Migration     QL-D09A*-AA
          Option

          *  Denotes processor variant. Migration indicates an upgrade
             from End Node (EN) to Full Function (FF). Contact your local
             Digital Sales Office for Rental License Option availability.












                                         26

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          LICENSE OPTIONS

          Single-Use License Option

          The Single-Use License is your right to use the software product
          on a single CPU. Single-Use licensed software is furnished under
          the licensing provisions of Digital Equipment Corporation's
          Standard Terms and Conditions.

          For the first installation of this software product the user
          must purchase as a minimum:

          o  Single-Use License Option, and

          o  One VMS Extended Documentation Option
             (Includes full DECnet-VAX Documentation)

          The license gives you the right to use the software on a sin-
          gle CPU and includes the delivery of a License Product Autho-
          rization Key (PAK) to enable the DECnet-VAX software. The VMS
          Distribution and Extended Documentation Options provides the
          machine-readable software and related documentation.

          To use this software product on additional CPUs, you must pur-
          chase a Single-Use License Option for each CPU.

          The one-time right to copy the software is no longer included
          with your Single-Use License Option. For additional CPUs, since
          DECnet-VAX software is included on the VMS Distribution media,
          you only need the one-time right to copy license for VMS. The
          VMS Extended or the VMS Base Documentation Options are are not
          required, but the VMS Base Documentation is recommended for
          additional CPUs. Note that the VMS Base Documentation does
          not include the full set of DECnet-VAX documentation, but is
          sufficient for those users who need to get started using the
          basic capabilities of DECnet-VAX.


                                         27

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          Migration Option - DECnet-VAX End Node to Full Function

          Current licensed users of DECnet-VAX End Node software are
          eligible for the Migration option to upgrade a system from End
          Node capability to Full Function capability. This is a Single-
          Use License offered at a reduced price and provides all of the
          License rights described above under a full function license.

          For each CPU running DECnet-VAX End Node that is to be upgraded
          to Full Function, you must purchase, as a minimum:

          o  Migration Option Single-Use License

          Documentation Option

          You will receive DECnet-VAX documentation as part of either
          the VMS Extended or VMS Base Documentation options. Note that
          the VMS Extended Set contains the full DECnet-VAX Networking
          Documentation while the Base set contains a subset of this
          information for users who need only to get started using DECnet-
          VAX. You do not need to order any license option to obtain
          documentation; you need only order those manuals or sets which
          are appropriate for your needs.

          It is suggested that the VMS Extended Documentation Option
          be purchased as system management becomes more important to
          you; however, you only need the VMS Base Documentation Option
          to use the DECnet-VAX software to get started. When revised
          versions of this software product become available, you may
          obtain additional copies of the documentation by purchasing

                                         28

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          either VMS option again or by purchasing individual manuals. For
          your convenience, a separate DECnet-VAX Documentation-only Kit
          is available (QA-001AN-GZ).




































                                         29

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

          This System Integrated Product (SIP) supports the VMS License
          Management Facility.

          License units for this product are allocated on a per CPU basis
          and are not dependent on CPU Capacity or User/Activity.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
          to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
          25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
          Operating System documentation set.

          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available. For more informa-
          tion, please contact your local Digital office.

          Note: If a device is not listed, that device is not supported by
          DECnet-VAX.

          The following tables describe the physical hardware configu-
          rations supported by DECnet-VAX in terms of CPU type and com-
          munication interface. The numbers given in the tables are load
          units.

          Load units are incurred when a device is in active operation at
          the indicated speed. An idle device incurs no load. However, in
          general, systems should be configured so they can sustain peak
          load rates.

                                         30

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          Configuration limits such as power supply, air conditioning,
          and backplane space requirements are not considered in the
          following tables. Please verify system configurations with
          your Digital representative. In addition, please note that
          each device requires its own memory space for buffering and
          link control. Particular consideration should be taken when
          configuring eight or more DECnet-VAX links on a single CPU; if
          in doubt, please contact your Digital representative.

          Instructions for using the following tables:

          Each communications device belongs to one of the following three
          classes:

          Class    -     DMA devices with firmware datalink protocol
          I

          Class    -     DMA devices with datalink protocol in handling
          II             software

          Class    -     Low end non-DMA devices with software-handling
          III            datalink protocol and primarily per-character
                         interrupts

          Listed below are the communications devices and the class in
          which each belongs.

          Each device class and line speed combination is associated with
          the following load units:

                      Load Units by Line Speed and Device Class

                            Line Speed (kilobits/second)

                        9.6   19.2  56    >56

          Class I       8     16    45    100


                                         31

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          Class II      10    20    52    115

          Class III     13    26    n/a   n/a

          Note:  For speeds under 9.6 kilobits/second ( 9600 baud), load
                 units are proportional. Thus a 2400 baud Class III (e.g.
                 a DZV11) line would represent about 3 units.

          Each CPU can support a given number of load units. In general,
          the faster the CPU the greater the number of load units it can
          support. The load units that can be supported by each CPU are:

                               Load Units by CPU Type

          ________________________________________________________________
                                         Main
          CPU______________Load_Units____BUS_Type_________________________

          VAX 9xxx-xxx     5400          XMI/BI

          VAX              1500          BI
          8810,20,30,40

          VAX 8800/VAX     1350          BI
          8700

          VAX 6000-4xx     1300          XMI/BI

          VAX 8650         1200          UNIBUS

          VAX 8550         1200          BI

          VAX 6000-3xx     945           XMI/BI
                           (formerly
                           63xx)



                                         32

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28


          ________________________________________________________________
                                         Main
          CPU______________Load_Units____BUS_Type_________________________


          VAX 8530         940           BI

          MicroVAX         865           Q-bus
          3800/3900

          VAX 8600         790           UNIBUS

          VAX 8500         790           BI

          VAX 6000-2xx     655           XMI/BI
                           (formerly
                           62xx)

          VAX 4xxx         640           Native/Q-bus

          MicroVAX         640           Native
          3100,
          VAXstation
          3100

          VAXstation       640           Native/Q-bus
          3200

          MicroVAX         640           Native/Q-bus
          3300,
          VAXstation
          3300

          MicroVAX         640           Native/Q-bus
          3400,
          VAXstation
          3400



                                         33

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28


          ________________________________________________________________
                                         Main
          CPU______________Load_Units____BUS_Type_________________________


          MicroVAX         640           Native/Q-bus
          3500,
          VAXstation
          3500

          VAXstation       640           Native/Q-bus
          3520/3540

          MicroVAX         640           Native
          3600,
          VAXstation
          3600

          VAX FT3xxx       560           Q-bus

          VAX-11/785       360           UNIBUS

          MicroVAX II,     280           Q-bus
          VAXstation II

          VAX-11/782       240           UNIBUS

          VAX-11/780       240           UNIBUS

          VAXstation       240           BI
          8000

          VAX 8250,        240           BI
          VAX 8350

          VAX 8200,        200           BI
          VAX 8300



                                         34

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28


          ________________________________________________________________
                                         Main
          CPU______________Load_Units____BUS_Type_________________________


          VAX-11/750       170           UNIBUS

          MicroVAX         170 1         Q-bus/Native

          2000/
          VAXstation
          2000

          MicroVAX I,      100 2         Q-bus

          VAXstation I

          VAX-11/725,      100 2         UNIBUS

          VAX-11/730______________________________________________________

          Notes: 1    For VAXstation 2000 systems, only one asynchronous

                      data/modem RS-232C serial line is supported up
                      to 9600 baud. For MicroVAX 2000 systems, up to 4
                      asynchronous data/modem RS-232C serial lines are
                      supported up to 9600 baud.

                 2    The following CPUs are no longer offered:

                        VAX: VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730, VAX-11/782
                        MicroVAX: MicroVAX I
                        VAXstation: VAXstation I

          The maximum system configuration, with a mix of device types,
          is computed by adding the load costs (in load units) for each
          device up to the limit for a given processor type. For general
          information on possible supported configurations, see the con-
          figuration charts in the VMS Operating System Software Product
          Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

          Example:

                                         35

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          For a VAX-11/750 used to route messages in a DECnet network:

          Assume that the system uses a DMR11 (Class I device) at
          500 kilobits/second, a DMR11 (Class I device) at 19.2 kilo-
          bits/second and the synchronous line of a DMF32 (Class I device)
          at 19.2 kilobits/second When the network is heavily used, the
          processor loading totals 136 load units. Adding a device with a
          load of greater than 34 load units (e.g., another DMR11 at 56
          kilobits/second) would mean that the VAX-11/750 may not be able
          to sustain heavy demand.

                                   Device Classes

          ________________________________________________________________
          Device_Type__________________Class______________________________

          DELUA 1                      I

          DEUNA 1                      I

          DEBNA 1                      I

          DEBNI 1                      I

          DEMNA 1                      I

          DHU11 2                      II

          DMC11                        I

          DMR11                        I

          DMP11                        I

          DMF32 (synch)                II




                                         36

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28


          ________________________________________________________________
          Device_Type__________________Class______________________________

          DMF32 2 (asynch)             II


          DSB32                        II

          DMB32 (synch)                II

          DMB32 2 (asynch)             II

          DSV11                        II

          DIV32                        II

          DSF32                        II

          DMV11 3                      I

          DSH32 (synch)                II

          DSH32 2 (asynch)             II

          DZ11 2                       III

          DZ32 2                       III

          DMZ32 2                      III

          CXY08                        II

          CI780 4                      I

          CI750 4                      I

          CIBCA                        I



                                         37

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28


          ________________________________________________________________
          Device_Type__________________Class______________________________

          DEQNA 1                      I

          DELQA 1                      I

          DESQA 1                      I

          DESVA 1                      I

          DHV11 2                      II

          DHQ11 2                      II

          DHT32 2                      II

          DST32 2                      II


          DHB32                        II

          DZV11 2                      III

          DZQ11 2                      III
          ________________________________________________________________

          1    When two or more Ethernet controllers are used on a single

               CPU, each controller must be connected to a different
               Ethernet cable. These cables must not be joined by a bridge
               or a repeater, although they may be joined by another
               DECnet router.

          2    Load costs are for each line of a device at 9600 baud.

               Higher data rates are not supported.



                                         38

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28




          3    Load costs are for each line at 56 kilobits/second. Higher

               data rates are not supported.

          4    DECnet-VAX supports up to 16 VAX systems connected to one

               SC008 star coupler via CI780/750 interfaces. The effective
               maximum data rate through the CI780/750 using DECnet-VAX is
               limited to 1000 kilobits/second at each node.

          Support for Multiple Ethernet Adapters on Different Bus types

          VMS support for multiple, Digital supplied, Ethernet adapters on
          different bus types allows for:

          1.   The added capability to Digital's existing multi-rail
               support

               and

          2.   The additional throughput capability of newer, faster
               devices while maintaining customer investment in supported
               older devices

          The following combinations are possible:

          ________________________________________________________________
          Bus_Type______Adapter_______CPUs_Affected_______________________

          XMI and       DEMNA         VAX 6xxx,
          BI            DEBNA,        VAX 9xxx
                        DEBNI






                                         39

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28


          ________________________________________________________________
          Bus_Type______Adapter_______CPUs_Affected_______________________


          Q-bus         DELQA/DEQTA   MicroVAX 3xxx
          and
          Integrated    (DELQA-
          Ethernet      Plus
          Controller    or DESQA)
                        DESVA



          Q-bus         DELQA/DEQTA   VAX 34xx,
          and           (DELQA-       VAX 4xxx
          Integrated    Plus
          Ethernet      or DESQA)
          Controller____SGEC______________________________________________

          The following table indicates supported configurations:

          ________________________________________________________________
                        DECnet-
                        VAX
                        Load         Combination
          CPU_Type______Units________Bus_Support__________________________

          VAX 6000-     1300         Any combination of
          4xx           945          XMI or BI adapters
          VAX 6000-     655          up to a maximum of 6 adapters
          3xx
          VAX 6000-
          2xx







                                         40

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28


          ________________________________________________________________
                        DECnet-
                        VAX
                        Load         Combination
          CPU_Type______Units________Bus_Support__________________________


          MicroVAX      640          2 Q-bus adapters maximum
          and                        1 Native adapter maximum or
          VAXstation                 a combination up to
          3xxx                       2 adapters of Native and Q-bus

          VAX 4xxx      640          2 Q-bus adapters maximum
          and                        1 Native adapter maximim or
          VAX 34xx                   a combination up to
          ___________________________2_adapters_of_Native_and_Q-bus_______

          Restrictions

          Note: If the configuration is not listed here, that configura-
          tion is not currently supported by DECnet-VAX.

          1. UNIBUS support does not change. DELUA and DEUNAs are still
             supported at current levels. No combinations beyond existing
             support are supported.

          2. The Q-bus environment is limited to 2 adapters on the same
             bus type.

          3. Failover of adapters is limited to DECnet protocol traffic
             ONLY. SCA VAXcluster traffic is not supported on multiple
             adapters on the same CPU for example.








                                         41

 


          DECnet-VAX, Version 5.4                             SPD 25.03.28



          4. No more than TWO different bus types with Ethernet adapters
             are supported per any CPU.

          5. Multiples of different adapters are supported ONLY for Digi-
             tal Ethernet Adapter hardware.

          6. Should average Ethernet utilization exceed 15% on average
             then failover is not guaranteed from a higher performance
             device to a lower performance device.

          In order to achieve a viable configuration the user and/or a
          Digital software specialist must perform a level of application
          analysis which addresses the factors stated.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software is provided by Digital with the
          purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software
          Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, DECnet, DECnet-VAX, Q-bus MicroVAX, Rain-
               bow, VAX, VAXmate, VAXstation and VAXserver are trademarks
               of Digital Equipment Corporation.
















                                         42
