 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  VAXset Package, Release 10           SPD 27.07.09

          1  DESCRIPTION

          The VAXset (Software Engineering Tools) Package is comprised of
          five component products:

          o  VAX Language-Sensitive Editor/Source Code Analyzer

          o  VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer

          o  VAX DEC/CMS

          o  VAX DEC/MMS

          o  VAX DEC/Test Manager

          These products provide a set of software engineering tools
          for the development, testing, and maintenance of application
          programs. Four products (VAX Language-Sensitive Editor/Source
          Code Analyzer editor component, VAX Performance and Coverage
          Analyzer, VAX DEC/CMS, VAX DEC/Test Manager) support the DECwin-
          dows software environment, and provide either a DECwindows or a
          command line user interface.

          Certain features of these products are not available when using
          language preprocessors such as those supplied for VAX Rdb/VMS
          and VAX DBMS. Please consult your local Digital Equipment Corpo-
          ration representative for additional information.

          Descriptions of the component products of the VAXset Package
          follow:

          VAX Language-Sensitive Editor/Source Code Analyzer

                                       DIGITAL              September 1990

                                                               AE-HD68K-TE

 


          VAXset Package, Release 10                          SPD 27.07.09



          The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor/Source Code Analyzer is an
          integrated environment that provides software professionals with
          editing, cross-reference, and static analysis capabilities. It
          is a multi-language, multi-module, and multi-window tool that is
          useful for program design, development and maintenance.

          The two main components of this product are the Language-
          Sensitive Editor component and the Source Code Analyzer com-
          ponent. The Language-Sensitive Editor component provides the
          following capabilities: source code templates, the ability to
          do low level program design by embedding pseudocode in source
          code, the ability to view source code at various levels of
          detail by replacing a sequence of source lines with a single
          overview line, and access to on-line language-specific help.
          Together, this support enables new and experienced progammers to
          develop programs faster through VAX language-specific construct
          completion and error detection and correction facilities.

          The Source Code Analyzer component aids developers in under-
          standing the complexities of software systems. Since it allows a
          developer to analyze an entire system as opposed to individual
          modules, and helps the developer understand unfamiliar systems,
          the Source Code Analyzer component is extremely useful during
          the implementation and maintenance phases of a project. The
          Source Code Analyzer component provides source code navigation,
          cross-reference, and static analysis for compile-time source
          code information generated by supported VAX languages. Addition-
          ally, the Analyzer provides design cross-reference, analysis,
          and reports for pseudocode and specialized comment processing
          information generated by supported VAX languages.

          The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor/Source Code Analyzer works in
          concert with supported VAX languages and the VAX Symbolic Debug-
          ger to provide a highly interactive, on-line environment that
          facilitates the EDIT-COMPILE-DEBUG-NAVIGATE-ANALYZE portion of
          the program development cycle. Within a single editing session,
          users can write, edit, compile, review compile-time errors,
          correct errors, navigate, and analyze their source code. The
          Language-Sensitive Editor component can be invoked directly from

                                          2

 


          VAXset Package, Release 10                          SPD 27.07.09



          the VAX Symbolic Debugger to correct source code errors found
          during a debugging session.

          For more information on the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor/Source
          Code Analyzer, the languages it supports, and its support for
          vector software development, refer to the Software Product
          Description (SPD 26.59.xx).

          VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer

          The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer is a tool to help
          VMS users analyze the execution behavior of their application
          programs. The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer has two
          functions. First, it can pinpoint execution bottlenecks and
          other performance problems in application programs. Second, it
          provides test coverage analysis by measuring what parts of a
          user program are executed or not executed by a given set of test
          data.

          The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer is an aid in tuning
          the performance and testing of application programs. It is not a
          tool for the analysis of operating system performance or for use
          as an aid in hardware resource planning.

          The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer consists of two parts:
          the Collector which gathers performance or test coverage data on
          the running user program and the Analyzer which later processes
          and displays the collected data. The Collector gathers the
          performance data and writes that information to a data file.
          Once the data has been collected into a data file, the Analyzer
          can be run using that data file as input. The Analyzer is a
          separate program which reads the data file produced by the
          Collector and presents the results as performance histograms
          or other displays.

          Both the Collector and the Analyzer are fully symbolic and use
          the Debug Symbol Table (DST) information in the user program
          to access the symbolic names of program locations. Applications

                                          3

 


          VAXset Package, Release 10                          SPD 27.07.09



          written in any of the VMS languages which produce DST infor-
          mation can be analyzed using the VAX Performance and Coverage
          Analyzer.

          For more information on the VAX Performance and Coverage Ana-
          lyzer, including support for vector software development, refer
          to the Software Product Description (SPD 26.76.xx).

          VAX DEC/CMS

          VAX DEC/CMS (Code Management System) is a library system that
          facilitates the development and maintenance of software sys-
          tems. Software systems are divided into different functional
          components that are, in turn, organized into sets of one or more
          files. During development, one or more programmers continually
          make changes to these files. VAX DEC/CMS helps manage the files
          during development (and later during maintenance) by storing
          the files in a project library, tracking changes, and monitoring
          access to the library.

          VAX DEC/CMS also supplies a means of manipulating different
          combinations of files within a library and across libraries.
          The ability to formalize these combinations provides a focus
          for system design and a means of organizing the files within a
          library.

          For more information on VAX DEC/CMS, refer to the Software
          Product Description (SPD 25.52.xx).

          VAX DEC/MMS

          VAX DEC/MMS (Module Management System) is a software tool de-
          signed to enhance programmer productivity. It determines that
          components in a described software system have changed, and
          rebuilds the system in an optimal way.

          When some modules of a software system are modified, dependent
          modules may need to be recompiled. VAX DEC/MMS determines which
          modules need to be recompiled, and performs the appropriate

                                          4

 


          VAXset Package, Release 10                          SPD 27.07.09



          actions to insure that the software system is recompiled and
          linked with all the latest changes.

          Note: Installations utilizing VAX Ada should note that many of
          the features of VAX DEC/MMS are duplicated by the ACS library
          manager subsystem for Ada-encoded programs. VAX DEC/MMS retains
          its benefits as a productivity aide for such installations
          primarily for non-Ada programming.

          For more information on VAX DEC/MMS, refer to the Software
          Product Description (SPD 26.03.xx).

          VAX DEC/Test Manager

          VAX DEC/Test Manager automates regression testing by executing
          user-supplied tests and automatically comparing the results
          with the expected test results. VAX DEC/Test Manager gives
          the software engineer flexibility in organizing tests and in
          selecting tests for execution, and in verifying and reviewing
          test results.

          VAX DEC/Test Manager lets the user create a library area for
          test result storage. It allows users to:

          o  Create descriptions of their software tests

          o  Group these test descriptions into meaningful combinations
             for later runs

          o  Modify or display the test descriptions or groups

          o  Execute specific tests, groups of tests or combinations of
             groups of tests

          o  Record and replay interactive terminal and interactive
             DECwindows sessions

          o  Compare the results of the executed tests with benchmark test
             results to determine differences

          o  View test results interactively

          o  Update benchmarks as needed

                                          5

 


          VAXset Package, Release 10                          SPD 27.07.09



          o  Edit interactive terminal sessions and interactive DECwindows
             sessions to alter the tests exercise of an application

          o  Filter test results from non-interactive and interactive
             terminal tests

          o  Mask screen output results for DECwindows tests to ignore
             areas of screens when results of executed tests are compared
             against benchmark tests results

          For more information on the VAX DEC/Test Manager, refer to the
          Software Product Description (SPD 26.68.xx).

          2  HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the
          System Support Addendum (SSA 27.07.09-x).

          3  SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

          For systems using terminals: (No DECwindows interface)

          o  VMS Operating System

          For workstations running VWS:

          o  VMS Operating System

          o  VMS Workstation Software

          For workstations running DECwindows:

          o  VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
             dows)

          Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.07.09-x) for avail-
          ability and required versions of prerequisite software and for
          information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

                                          6

 


          VAXset Package, Release 10                          SPD 27.07.09



          4  ORDERING INFORMATION

          Software Licenses: QL-965A*-**
          Software Media: QA-965A*-**
          Software Documentation: QA-965AA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-965A*-**

          *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
             able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
             price book.

          5  SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          6  LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

          This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
          ity.

          License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity
          basis. For more information on the License Management Facility,
          refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description
          (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the
          VMS Operating System documentation set.

          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          7  SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available. For more informa-
          tion, please contact your local Digital office.



                                          7

 


          VAXset Package, Release 10                          SPD 27.07.09



          8  SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
          the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
          Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

          [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, VMS, DECwindows, VAX, MicroVAX, VAXs-
                tation, VAXserver and VAXset are trademarks of Digital
                Equipment Corporation.






























                                          8
