 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  VMS Operating System, Version 5.4    SPD 25.01.34

          DESCRIPTION [1]

          VMS is a general purpose multiuser operating system which sup-
          ports VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, and VAXserver series computers
          in both development and production environments. VMS can be
          tuned to perform well in a wide variety of applications, in-
          cluding compute-intensive, I/O-intensive, real-time, and com-
          binations of those and other environments. (Actual performance
          depends upon the type of VAX computer, available physical mem-
          ory, and the number and type of disk and tape drives on your
          system.)

          VMS has well-integrated networking, distributed computing, mul-
          tiprocessing and windowing capabilities. VMS contains extensive
          features that promote ease-of-use, improve the productivity of
          programmers, and facilitate system management.

          VMS also supports a large number of industry standards, facili-
          tating application portability and interoperability.

          User Environment

          ___________________
        [1] "Licensee agrees to only execute Display PostScript on those Dig-
            ital computer systems identified as licensed systems in this Soft-
            ware Product Description, and that in any event licensee agrees
            not to make use of the software directly or indirectly, to print
            bitmap images with print resolutions greater than 150 DPI, or to
            generate fonts or typefaces for use other than with the Digital
            licensed system." (Terms and Conditions for Display PostScript can

            be found Appendix C of this SPD.)

                                       DIGITAL              September 1990

                                                               AE-HQ86J-TE

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Users may access VMS by using the English-like Digital Command
          Language (DCL), the command language for VMS which is supplied
          with the system. DCL commands take the form of a command name
          followed by parameters and qualifiers. DCL commands provide
          information about the system, initiate system utilities, and
          initiate user programs. VMS prompts users to enter required DCL
          parameters, making it easy for novice users to use.

          You can enter DCL commands at a terminal or include them in
          command procedures. You can run Command procedures interactively
          or submit them to a batch queue for deferred execution.

          Information on DCL and VMS Utilities is available through online
          HELP. Online HELP includes summary operational information on
          all aspects of system operation.

          A number of tools and utilities are integrated into the VMS
          operating system. This section briefly describes some of these
          tools and utilities.

          Text processing - The Extensible VAX Editor (EVE), one of sev-
          eral text editors supplied by Digital, let you quickly insert,
          change, and delete text. Written in the VAX Text Processing
          Utility Language (VAXTPU), EVE is a full screen editor that let
          you scroll text on a terminal screen. EVE provides an EDT-style
          keypad, allowing users of EDT to transition to EVE easily.

          Mail facility - The Mail facility let you to send messages to
          any other user on the system. Multi-node operation is available
          if DECnet-VAX is installed and licensed on each participating
          node.

          Command-level programming - Command-level programming let you
          create special files called command procedures that contain
          a series of DCL commands. When you start a command procedure,
          the system processes the commands in the command procedure.
          You can also use special DCL commands to assign symbolic names,
          evaluate numerical and logical expressions, accept parameters,
          communicate interactively with the user invoking the command

                                          2

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          procedure, perform conditional (IF-THEN- ELSE) and branching
          (GOTO) logic, and handle error conditions.

          User Environment Tailoring - You can customize your computing
          environment with user login command procedures, shorthand com-
          mands, binding of commands to function keys, and command recall
          and editing.

          Program Development Environment

          VMS provides a comprehensive set of tools for developing pro-
          grams including editors (for editing source programs), a linker,
          a librarian, and a symbolic debugger. The assembly-level VAX
          MACRO language is supplied with VMS.

          The VMS Run-Time Library provides string manipulation, In-
          put/Output (I/O) routines, I/O conversion, terminal independent
          screen handling, date and time formatting routines, common math-
          ematical functions, signaling and condition handling, and other
          general purpose functions. These routines can be called from
          programs written in VAX MACRO or from VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX
          BLISS-32 Implementation Language, VAX C, VAX COBOL, VAX DIBOL,
          VAX FORTRAN, VAX PASCAL, VAX PL/I, and VAX SCAN.

          Major VAX languages (including those listed above) adhere to
          the VAX common calling standard, meaning that routines written
          in any of these languages can directly call routines written in
          any other language. Development of applications using multiple
          languages is simple and straightforward.

          All routines in the run-time library follow the VMS calling
          standard and condition handling conventions and most are con-
          tained within a shareable image.

          At a lower level, programs can call system services directly for
          security, event flag, asynchronous system trap, logical name,
          record and file I/O, process control, timer, time conversion,
          condition handling, lock management, and memory management
          services. Again, system services use the VMS calling standard
          and condition handling conventions.

                                          3

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          VMS supports execution of non-privileged images created on
          earlier versions of VMS. Recompiling and relinking are typically
          not required.

          Some tools available to the VMS programmer are:

          Librarian utility - The Librarian utility permits efficient
          storage of object modules, macros, help text, or any general
          record-oriented information in central, easily accessible files.
          Object module libraries are searched by the linker when the
          linker finds a reference it cannot resolve in one of its input
          files. Macro libraries are searched by the assembler when the
          assembler finds a macro that is not defined in the input file.

          Debugger - The debugger lets you trace program execution as well
          as display and modify register contents using the same symbols
          that are in the source code.

          RMS file utilities - RMS file utilities let you analyze the
          internal structure of an RMS file. Use them to determine the
          most appropriate set of parameters for an RMS file. They can
          also be used to create, efficiently load, and reclaim space in
          an RMS file. (Refer to the Operating System Environment section 
          of this SPD for more information on RMS.)

          File Differences utility - This utility compares the contents of
          two files and lists those records that do not match.

          Terminal Fallback Facility (TFF) - This facility allows Digital
          7-bit terminals, such as the VT100, to input and output the
          DEC Multinational Character Set (MCS). Specific tables allow
          conversion for a number of different 7-bit National Replacement
          Character sets, such as French, German, Spanish and Swedish, to
          MCS. TFF also allows character composition on terminals that do
          not have the compose key.



                                          4

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          National Character Set (NCS) utility - This utility allows
          the user to define non-ASCII string collating sequences and to
          define conversion functions. Conversion functions use conversion
          algorithms to change an input string, for example, to change
          lower case characters to upper case. NCS also allows RMS indexed
          files to be collated using user-specified collating sequences.

          System Management Environment

          VMS provides a variety of tools to aid the system manager in
          configuring and maintaining an optimal system. Some tools avail-
          able for the system manager are:

          Backup - This utility provides full volume and incremental
          file backup for file-structured, mounted volumes and volume
          sets. Individual files, selected directory structures, or all
          files on a volume set can be backed up and restored. Files can
          be selected by various dates (creation, modification, etc.).
          Files can be backed up to magnetic tape, magnetic disk or WORM
          (Write Once Read Many) optical disk. With standalone backup,
          system managers can back up and restore selected files or entire
          volumes. The Backup Utility can be used to restore a saveset or
          list the contents of a saveset.

          Analyze disk structure - This utility compares the structure
          information on a disk volume with the contents of the disk,
          prints the structure information, and permits changes to that
          information. It also can be used to repair errors that are
          detected in the file structure of disks.

          Monitor - This utility permits the system manager to monitor
          different classes of system-wide performance data including
          process activity, I/O activity, and memory management activity,
          vector processing activity and two-phase commit transaction
          activity at specified intervals. The data may be displayed as it
          is gathered or saved in a file for later use.



                                          5

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          License Management Facility (LMF) - This facility allows the
          system manager to easily determine which software products are
          licensed and installed on a standalone VAX and on each of the
          VAX systems in a VAXcluster System. It lets the system manager
          select which subset of systems in a VAXcluster may use the
          software products. LMF also provides an audit trail which allows
          the system manager to track license changes that occur within a
          VAXcluster system. Refer to the section entitled ``VAXcluster
          Support'' for more information on VAXcluster Systems.

          VMS System Management (SYSMAN) Utility - This utility allows
          the system manager to define a system management environment
          so that operations performed from the local VAX system can be
          executed on all other VAX systems in the defined environment.
          The environment may include VAX systems in a DECnet-VAX network
          or in a VAXcluster System.

          Operations - VMS enables varying levels of privilege to be
          assigned to different operators. In addition, system generated
          messages can be routed to different terminals based on their
          interest to the console operators, tape librarians, security
          administrators, and system managers. Operators can use the
          VMS HELP facility to get an online description of VMS Error
          Messages.

          Security and Control- VMS provides privilege, protection, and
          quota mechanisms to control user access to system-controlled
          structures in physical memory, to system-structured files and
          volumes, and to certain devices.

          User account information is maintained by the system manager
          in the User Authorization File (UAF). When creating user ac-
          counts with the Authorize Utility, the system manager assigns
          the privileges and quotas associated with each user account.
          The system manager also assigns a unique user name, password,
          and user identification code (UIC) to each account. Optionally,
          additional identifiers may be assigned to each account, permit-
          ting users to belong to multiple overlapping groups or projects.

                                          6

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Account use may be limited by time of day, day of week and type
          of access, such as local,remote, or batch.

          To log in and gain access to the system, the user must supply
          the user name and password. The password is encoded and does
          not appear on terminal displays. Users can change their password
          voluntarily, or the system manager can selectively enforce how
          frequently passwords change, password length, and generation of
          random alphabetic passwords.

          Additionally, VMS provides several password filters which screen
          all user password changes against a dictionary of common pass-
          words. This prevents users from reusing passwords which they
          have used within the last year. In addition to these built-in
          filters, a site can install their own filter to screen passwords
          against a site-specific password policy.

          The system password hash algorithm can also be replaced with
          a private algorithm for those sites which have contractual
          agreements to use specific password encryption algorithms. This
          feature can be enabled on a per-user, per-password basis.

          Login security includes breakin detection, which allows termi-
          nals to be disabled when password guessing is detected. When
          a user logs in, the system displays a message stating when
          the last login for the account occurred and if there have been
          failed attempts to log in since the last successful login.

          A UIC consists of two fields, the unique user field and a group
          field. Every file, device, queue, or other system object is
          labeled with the UIC of its owner (normally the user who created
          the object).

          Files, devices, queues, and other system objects are assigned a
          protection mask which allows read, execute, write, and delete
          access to be selectively granted to the object's owner and
          group, to privileged system users, and to all other users. In
          addition, files, devices, queues, and some other system objects
          may be protected with access control lists to allow access to

                                          7

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          be selectively granted or denied to a list of individual users,
          groups or identifiers.

          Scavenge protection may be selectively enabled in the form of
          file high-water marking, erase on allocate, and erase on delete,
          to ensure that file contents cannot be read after a file has
          been deleted.

          Security alarms are provided to allow selective auditing of
          security related events, including:

          o  Login and logout

          o  Login failures and breakin attempts

          o  Authorization changes

          o  File access, selectable by use of privilege, type of access,
             and by individual file

          Note that no system can provide complete security and Digital
          cannot guarantee system security. However, Digital continually
          strives to enhance the security capabilities of its products.
          Customers are strongly advised to follow industry-recognized
          security practices.

          INSTALLATION

          VMS is distributed as binary kits on tape, disk, and compact
          disc. Procedures for setting up the system disk from a kit and
          for preparing the system for day-to-day operations are easy and
          straightforward. The procedures are described in the VMS Version
          5.4 Upgrade and Installation Manual. Computer-specific informa-
          tion is contained in the upgrade and installation supplements
          for each family of VAX computers.

          The VMS AUTOGEN command automatically sets a number of system
          parameters by detecting installed devices in a configuration. A
          feedback option can be used to generate a report of recommended
          parameter settings for system tuning.

          VMSINSTAL

                                          8

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          VMS includes a facility to automate operating system software
          updates, as well as to handle the installation of optional
          Digital-supplied software products.

          Tailoring Facility

          Tailoring lets the system manager remove groups of VMS files
          from the system disk or add groups of VMS files that were for-
          merly removed. The VMSTAILOR program supplies step-by-step in-
          structions. The DECW$TAILOR program is used to add or remove
          groups of DECwindows files from the system disk.

          Due to space constraints, there is no guarantee that layered
          products can be installed if user files reside on the system
          disk.

          Application programs will execute as long as the layered prod-
          ucts or optional software DO NOT DEPEND on optional software
          run-time components that are not supported in the tailored en-
          vironment. Refer to the product's System Support Addendum (SSA)
          for the optional products supported in the tailored environment.

          Batch/Print Facility

          VMS provides an extensive batch/print facility which allows the
          creation of queues and the setup of spooled devices in order to
          process non-interactive workloads in parallel with timesharing
          or real-time jobs.

          In the VMS Operating System, batch and print operations support
          two types of queues: generic queues and execution queues. A
          generic queue is an intermediate queue that holds a job until an
          appropriate execution queue becomes available to initiate the
          job. An execution queue is a queue through which the job (either
          print or batch) is actually processed or executed.

          The system queues batch jobs for execution. The system manager
          can regulate the number of queues and the number of streams per
          queue (that is, the number of batch jobs in the queue that can
          execute concurrently).

                                          9

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Both generic and execution batch queues can have different
          attributes such as the maximum CPU time permitted, working set
          size, and priority. Facilities are provided for starting and
          stopping queues, and for starting and stopping jobs in a queue.
          Because multiple execution queues can be associated with a
          generic queue, VMS enables load balancing across available CPUs
          in a VAXcluster system, increasing overall system throughput.

          Print queues, both generic and execution, together with queue
          management facilities, provide versatile print capabilities,
          including support of ANSI and Postscript[R] file printing.

          Sites requiring sophisticated batch job dependency checking and
          job restart capabilities should refer to the DECscheduler for
          VMS (SPD 32.19.xx).

          Accounting

          For accounting purposes, VMS keeps records of the use of sys-
          tem resources. These statistics include processor and memory
          utilization, I/O counts, print symbiont line counts, image acti-
          vation counts, and process termination records. VMS Accounting
          allows various reports to be generated using this data.

          Autoconfigure/Autogen

          VMS provides utilities to automatically configure the available
          devices into the system tables, and to set system operational
          parameters based on the detected peripheral and memory configu-
          ration. There is no need for a traditional "system generation"
          process when the hardware configuration is expanded or otherwise
          modified.

          Operating System Environment

          Process and Scheduling



                                         10

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The basic unit of execution in VMS is the process. A process
          consists of individual address space and registers known as
          ``context'', and code called an ``executable image.'' The con-
          text identifies the process and describes its current state.
          Executable images consist of system programs and user programs
          that have been compiled and linked.

          The maximum number of concurrent processes is 8192 per VAX
          system.

          Processes receive processor time to execute their images based
          on the priority of the process. Thirty-two priorities are rec-
          ognized: Priorities 0-15 are for time-sharing processes and
          applications that are not time critical (four is the typical
          default for time-sharing processes) and priorities 16-31 are for
          real-time processes.

          Each time an event such as an I/O interrupt occurs, the system
          first services the event and then passes control to the highest
          priority process ready to execute. The system automatically
          adjusts priorities of processes whose base priority is in the
          range of 0 to 15 to favor I/O-bound and interactive processes,
          but the system will not adjust the priority of a process in the
          range of 16 to 31.

          Real-time processes can be assigned higher priorities to ensure
          that they receive processor time whenever they are ready to
          execute. Real-time processes are scheduled pre-emptively; that
          is, if a real-time process is ready to execute, it is given the
          processor immediately, unless a real-time process with a higher
          priority is ready to execute.

          VMS uses paging and swapping mechanisms to provide sufficient
          virtual memory for multiple concurrently executing processes.
          Also, paging and swapping is provided for processes whose memory
          requirements exceed available physical memory. The maximum
          working set size is 200,000 pages of memory.


                                         11

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Programmers can exercise control over memory management from
          within an image. An image executing in a real-time process, for
          example, can inhibit paging or swapping of critical code and
          data.

          Peripheral devices can be managed by the system or allocated by
          individual processes. At least one disk must be a system disk.
          Other disks can be designated as data disks for the general use
          of all users logging into the system or for a specific group
          of users. The system controls interactive terminals, and one or
          more printers.

          Vector Processing

          A single data item, having one value, is known as a scalar
          value. A group of related scalar values, or elements, all of
          the same data type, is known as a vector.

          An extension to the VAX architecture defines an optional de-
          sign for integrated vector processing that has been adopted by
          several VAX systems. The VAX vector architecture includes 16
          64-bit vector registers (V0 through V15), each containing 64
          elements; vector control registers; vector function units; and
          a set of vector instructions. VAX vector instructions transfer
          data between the vector registers and memory, perform integer
          and floating-point arithmetic, and execute processor control
          functions.

          A more detailed description of the VAX vector architecture,
          vector registers, and vector instructions appears in the VAX
          MACRO and Instruction Set Reference Manual.

          The VMS Operating System provides fully-shared, multiprogramming
          support for VAX vector processing systems. By default, VMS loads
          vector support code when initializing vector-present systems,
          but does not load it when initializing vector-absent systems.
          A system manager can control this behavior by using the SYSGEN
          parameter VECTOR_PROC, as described in the VMS Version 5.4 New
          Features Manual.

                                         12

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The presence of vector support code in a system has little
          effect on processes running in a scalar-only system, or scalar
          processes running in a vector-present system. If many processes
          must simultaneously compete for vector processor resources in
          a system, the system manager can maintain good performance by
          adjusting system resources and process quotas as indicated in
          the VMS Version 5.4 New Features Manual.

          The VMS Operating System makes the services of the vector pro-
          cessor available to system users by means of a software abstract
          known as a capability. A system manager can restrict the use
          of the vector processor to users holding a particular identi-
          fier by associating an access control list (ACL) entry with the
          CAPABILITY object VECTOR.

          The VAX Vector Instruction Emulation Facility (VVIEF) is a stan-
          dard feature of the VMS operating system that allows vectorized
          applications to be written and debugged in a VAX system in which
          vector processors are not available. VVIEF emulates the VAX vec-
          tor processing environment, including the non-privileged VAX
          vector instructions and the VMS vector system services, as de-
          scribed in the VMS Version 5.4 New Features Manual. Use of VVIEF
          is restricted to user mode code.

          DECdtm Services

          The DECdtm services embedded in the VMS Operating System sup-
          port fully distributed databases using a "two phase commit"
          protocol. The DECdtm services provide the technology and fea-
          tures for distributed processing, ensuring both transaction and
          database integrity across multiple resource managers. Updates to
          distributed databases occur as a single "all or nothing" unit
          of work, regardless of where the data physically resides. This
          ensures consistency of distributed data.

          DECdtm services allow applications to define "global trans-
          actions" that may include calls to any of a number of Digital
          data management products. Regardless of the mix of data manage-
          ment products used, the global transaction will either commit

                                         13

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          or abort. VMS is unique in providing transaction processing
          functionality as base operating system services.

          Key Features

          o  Embedded VMS system services support the DECtp architec-
             ture, providing features and the technology for distributed
             transaction processing.

          o  It allows multiple disjoint resources to be updated atomi-
             cally. These resources can be either physically-disjointed
             (for example, on different CPUs) or logically-disjointed
             (for example, in different databases on the same CPU), to be
             updated "atomically".

          o  It encourages robust application development. Applications
             can be written to ensure that data is never in an inconsis-
             tent state, even in the event of system failures.

          o  As a VMS service, DECdtm can be called using any Digital TP
             monitor (ACMS or DECintact) or database product (DBMS, RDB,
             RMS). This is useful for applications using several database
             products.

          Interprocess Communication

          VMS provides a number of facilities for applications that con-
          sist of multiple cooperating processes:

          o  Mailboxes are virtual devices that allow processes to commu-
             nicate with queued messages.

          o  Shared memory sections on a single processor or a symmetrical
             multiprocessing (SMP) system permit multiple processes to
             access shared address space concurrently.

          o  Common event flags provide simple synchronization.

          o  The lock manager provides a more comprehensive enqueue /de-
             queue facility with multi-level locks, values, and ASTs
             (Asynchronous System Traps).

          Symmetric Multiprocessing

                                         14

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          VMS provides symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) support for mul-
          tiprocessing VAX systems. SMP is a form of tightly coupled
          multiprocessing in which all processors perform operations si-
          multaneously. The processors can perform operations in all VAX
          access modes (user, supervisor, executive, and kernel).

          VMS SMP configurations consist of multiple central process-
          ing units executing code from a single shared memory address
          space. Users and processes share a single copy of VMS. SMP also
          provides simultaneous shared access to common data in global
          sections to all processors. VMS SMP dynamically balances the
          execution of all processes across all available processors based
          on process priority.

          SMP support is an integral part of VMS and is provided trans-
          parently to the user. Because an SMP system is a single system
          entity, it is configured into a network and VAXcluster systems
          as a single node.

          VAXcluster Support

          A VAXcluster system is formed combining any number of VAX
          computers. A VAXcluster environment can include mass storage
          servers known as ``Hierarchical Storage Controllers'' (HSCs).
          These cooperating, independent VAX computers may share: a single
          disk-resident copy of VMS, RMS data down to the record level,
          batch and print queues and locally attached or HSC-based disks.
          VAXcluster systems provide data sharing and easy incremental
          growth, and may be configured to provide high availability
          computing environments.

          Two or more VAX computers connected to the same Computer In-
          terconnect (CI) or Digital Storage Systems Interconnect (DSSI)
          must run VAXcluster software and be part of the same VAXcluster
          system.

          VAXcluster Software is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that
          is separately licensed from the VMS Operating System. Refer to
          VAXcluster Software (SPD 29.78.xx) for more information.

                                         15

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Networking Facilities

          VMS provides device drivers for all Digital Ethernet adapters
          listed in the Ethernet Options section in this SPD. Application
          programmers can use the QIO system service to communicate with
          other systems connected via the Ethernet using either Ether-
          net or IEEE 802.3 packet format. Simultaneous use of Digital
          Ethernet and IEEE 802.3 protocols are supported on any Digital
          Ethernet adapter.

          VMS also provides device drivers for Digital asynchronous
          adapters which are supported by DECnet-VAX. Customers must or-
          der the VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers kit (reference SPD
          29.64.xx) to obtain synchronous device drivers for Digital syn-
          chronous adapters. Not all devices are supported, and certain
          restrictions apply relative to line speed and line utilization.
          Refer to the Hardware charts and Appendix B in this SPD, as well
          as the DECnet-VAX SPD (25.03.xx) for more information.

          DECnet-VAX offers task-to-task communications, file management,
          downline system and task loading, network command terminals, and
          network resource sharing capabilities using the Digital Network
          Architecture (DNA) protocols.

          DECnet-VAX Software is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that
          is separately licensed from the VMS Operating System. Refer to
          the DECnet-VAX Software Product Description (SPD 25.03.xx) for
          further information on supported communications devices and
          software features.










                                         16

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Internet networking is available through the VMS/ULTRIX Connec-
          tion layered product. This product provides TCP/IP networking
          (useful with DECwindows), Network File System (NFS), File Trans-
          fer Protocol (FTP), Remote Terminal Services (TELNET), and other
          features. Refer to the VMS/ULTRIX Connection Software Product
          Description (SPD 25.A4.xx).

          Terminal Server Products

          Digital's terminal server products can be used for terminal
          server access to VMS. When used in a VAXcluster system environ-
          ment, terminal servers automatically distribute users at login
          time across the available VAX systems.

          VMS can also establish a connection to other devices (such as
          printers) attached to such terminal servers.

          Reliability

          The system handles hardware errors as transparently as possible
          while maintaining data integrity and providing sufficient in-
          formation to diagnose the cause of the error. The system limits
          the effects of an error by first determining if the error is
          fatal. If the error is fatal then the process that encountered
          the error is aborted. If the error occurs in system context then
          the current VMS session is shut down. If the error is not fatal
          then recovery actions pertinent to the error are executed and
          current operation is continued.

          In all cases information relevant to the error is collected and
          put in the error log file for later analysis. Hardware errors
          include the following categories:

          o  Processor errors (these include processor soft errors, pro-
             cessor hard errors, processor machine checks, adapter errors)

          o  Memory errors are hardware errors which are handled in a
             slightly different manner. The system examines memory at
             start-up time and does not use any pages found to be bad.
             During system operation, the hardware transparently corrects
             all single-bit memory errors, for those systems with ECC

                                         17

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



             memory. An unrecoverable error causes the memory page on
             which the error occurred to be added to the bad page list; if
             the page has not been modified, system operation continues
             with a new copy of the page.

          Other failures include:

          o  Operating system errors (system-detected inconsistencies or
             architectural errors in system context)

          o  User errors

          o  I/O errors

          The system logs all processor errors, all operating system er-
          rors detected through internal consistency checks, all double-
          bit memory errors (and a summary of corrected single-bit er-
          rors), and all I/O errors. (Double-bit errors are detected only
          on those VAX and MicroVAX systems with ECC memory.)

          If the system is shut down because of an unrecoverable hardware
          or software error, a dump of physical memory is written; the
          dump includes the contents of the processor registers. The VMS
          System Dump Analyzer utility is provided for analyzing memory
          dumps.

          Power Failures

          If power fails, the system shuts down automatically. When power
          is restored, the system restarts automatically and resumes
          processing at the point of interruption if the system has a
          time-of-day clock and a memory battery back-up unit, if the
          contents of memory are still valid, and if the system is set to
          permit automatic rebooting.

          The system restarts devices and communications lines. All I/O
          operations in progress, including magnetic tape I/O operations,
          are restarted. On request, programs can be notified of power
          restoration. An optional battery operated hardware clock re-
          sets the date and time of day when the system restarts. If the
          system does not have a battery backup unit, or if the memory

                                         18

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          contents are not valid on power restoration, the system will
          reboot automatically if the system is set to permit automatic
          rebooting.

          If, for any reason, the system disk does not come back on line
          after a power failure within a specific time after the CPU
          regains power, the system shuts down.

          Test Package and Diagnostics

          VMS includes a User Environment Test Package (UETP) which ver-
          ifies that the VMS Operating System is properly installed and
          ready for use on the customer's systems.

          Diagnostics can be run on individual devices during normal
          system operation. Certain critical components can operate in
          degraded mode. For example, the memory cache can be disabled.
          The system places a component in degraded mode when errors pass
          a threshold level.

          Input/Output

          The QIO system service provides a direct interface to the oper-
          ating system's I/O routines. These services are available from
          within most VAX programming languages and can be used to perform
          low-level I/O operations efficiently with a minimal amount of
          system overhead for time-critical applications.

          Device drivers execute I/O instructions to transfer data to
          and from the device and to communicate directly with an I/O
          device. Each type of I/O device requires its own driver. Digital
          supplies drivers for all devices supported by the VMS Operating
          System and provides QIO system service routines to access the
          special device dependent features available in many of these
          devices. Users with special needs or non-VMS supported devices
          can write their own device drivers. (The VMS Device Support
          Manual and the VMS Device Support Reference Manual in the VMS
          Extended Documentation set describes how to write your own
          device driver.)

                                         19

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The VMS Operating System supports a variety of disk and tape
          peripheral devices, as well as terminals, networks, mailboxes
          (virtual devices for interprocess communication), and more
          general I/O devices. These I/O devices include line printers,
          card readers, and general purpose data acquisition devices such
          as the DRB32.

          VMS Record Management Services (VMS RMS)

          VMS RMS is a set of I/O services that help application programs
          to process and manage files and records. Although it is primar-
          ily intended to provide a comprehensive software interface to
          mass storage devices, VMS RMS also supports device-independent
          access to unit-record devices.

          VMS RMS supports sequential, relative, and indexed file orga-
          nizations in fixed-length and variable-length record formats.
          VMS RMS also supports byte stream formats for sequential file
          organization. VMS RMS record access modes provide access to
          records in four ways: sequentially, directly by key value, di-
          rectly by relative record number, and directly by record file
          address. VMS RMS also supports block I/O operations for various
          performance-critical applications that may require user-defined
          file organizations and record formats.

          VMS RMS promotes safe and efficient file sharing by providing
          multiple file access modes, automatic record locking where
          applicable, and optional buffer sharing by multiple processes.

          VMS RMS utilities aid file creation and record maintenance.
          These utilities convert files from one organization and format
          to another, restructure indexed files for storage and access
          efficiency, and reclaim data structures within indexed files.
          The utilities also generate appropriate reports.

          For systems that have DECnet installed, VMS RMS provides a
          subset of file and record management services to remote network
          nodes. Network remote file operations are generally transparent
          to user programs.

                                         20

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          DCL commands such as EDIT, CREATE, COPY, TYPE, and PRINT allow
          manipulation of RMS files and records within RMS files at the
          DCL command level

          VAX RMS Journaling

          VAX RMS Journaling is a tool which maintains the data integrity
          of RMS files in the face of a number of failure scenarios. It
          helps to protect RMS file data from becoming lost or inconsis-
          tent. RMS Journaling is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that
          is separately licensed. Refer to the VAX RMS Journaling SPD (SPD
          27.58.xx) for more information.

          Disk and Tape Volumes

          Disk volumes can be organized into volume sets. Volume sets
          can contain a mix of disk device types and can be extended by
          adding volumes. Within a volume set, files of any organization
          type can span multiple volumes. Files can be allocated to the
          set as a whole (the default) or to specific volumes within the
          set. Optionally, portions of indexed files can be allocated to
          specific areas of a single disk volume or to specific volumes in
          a volume set.

          Disk quotas can be placed to control the amount of space in-
          dividual users can allocate. Quota assignment is made by User
          Identification Code and can be controlled for each volume set in
          the system (or for each individual volume if the volume is not
          part of a set).

          Disk structure information can be cached in memory to reduce
          the I/O overhead required for file management services. Although
          not required to do so, users can preallocate space and control
          automatic allocation. For example, a file can be extended by
          a given number of blocks, contiguously or noncontiguously, for
          optimal file system performance in specific cases.



                                         21

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The system applies software validity checks and checksums to
          critical disk structure information. If a volume is improperly
          dismounted because of user error or system failure, the system
          automatically rebuilds the volume's structure information the
          next time the volume is mounted. The system detects bad blocks
          dynamically and prevents their reuse once the files to which the
          blocks were allocated are deleted. On Digital Storage Architec-
          ture (DSA) disks, the disk controller dynamically detects and
          replaces bad blocks automatically.

          The system provides eight levels of named directories and subdi-
          rectories whose contents are alphabetically ordered. Device and
          file specifications follow Digital conventions. Logical names
          can be used to abbreviate the specifications and to make appli-
          cation programs device and file-name independent. A logical name
          can be assigned to an entire specification, to a portion of a
          specification, or to another logical name.

          VMS supports multivolume magnetic tape files with transparent
          volume switching. Access positioning is done either by filename
          or by relative file position.

          VMS Volume Shadowing

          Digital provides a volume shadowing product with two methods for
          performing shadowing operations.

          VMS Volume Shadowing Phase I

          Phase I volume shadowing provides for centralized shadowing on
          VMS systems using Hierarchical Storage Controller (HSC) con-
          trollers with compatible (have the same physical geometry)
          Digital Standard Architecture (DSA) disks. The system disk
          and Files-11 On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS2) data disks can also
          be volume shadowed. This type of shadowing is limited to Com-
          puter Interconnect (CI) configurations on a single system or a
          VAXcluster.

          VMS Volume Shadowing Phase II

                                         22

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Phase II allows shadowing on the same configurations as Phase I
          plus it supports:

          o  Clusterwide shadowing of all MSCP-compliant DSA disks having
             the same physical geometry, on a single system or located
             anywhere in a VAXcluster system.

          Volume shadowing Phase II supports clusterwide shadowing of
          all DSA devices. Phase II is not limited to HSC-controlled
          disks, but extends volume shadowing capabilities to all DSA
          disks including those on local adapters, all Digital Storage
          System Interconnect (the DSSI RF-series) disk devices on any VAX
          computer, all interfaces (CI, Ethernet, mixed), and across MSCP
          servers.

          o  Distributed shadowing

          Volume shadowing Phase I creates and maintains virtual units
          in a distributed fashion on each node in the cluster. Phase II
          supports shadowing on a single system or a VAXcluster system
          where interprocessor communication is carried out over either
          Computer Interconnect (CI), Ethernet, Digital Storage System
          Interconnect (DSSI), Mixed-interconnect (a combination of CI,
          Ethernet, and/or DSSI).

          Thus, Phase II provides fault tolerance resulting from disk
          media errors or controller errors across the full range of VAX
          processors and configurations.

          o  Shadowing capabilities across different controllers

          Shadow set member units can be located on different controllers
          and VMS MSCP servers, providing a high degree of data availabil-
          ity.

          Phase I and Phase II can be used simultaneously on the same
          standalone or VAXcluster system. VAX Volume Shadowing is a
          System Integrated Product (SIP) that is separately licensed.
          Refer to the VAX Volume Shadowing Software Product Description
          (SPD 27.29.xx) for more information.

          VMS DECwindows Environment

                                         23

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Integral to VMS is support for the VMS DECwindows desktop envi-
          ronment.

          VMS DECwindows is based on M.I.T.'s specification for the X Win-
          dow System, Version 11, Release 3. X Window System standards
          supported as part of DECwindows include the X11 network proto-
          col, a base set of workstation fonts, the C language binding for
          the Xlib programming library and the C language binding for the
          Xtoolkit library. Also featured within DECwindows for worksta-
          tion users is support for Adobe's Display PostScript integrated
          into X11.

          Support of the X11 network protocol in the client, library
          and display server components provides VMS with the ability to
          interoperate with other X11-compliant systems in a distributed
          fashion.

          To determine the set of systems and applications for which VMS
          has verified correct distributed operation, consult the DECwin-
          dows Interoperability Compliance Table matrix (SPD 01.25.xx).

          DECwindows supports the server-client distribution inherent in
          the X Window System, with three VMS-provided transport inter-
          faces - local shared memory, DECnet, and TCP/IP (using Digital's
          VMS/ULTRIX Connection (UCX) layered product). Users can also
          provide their own transport subsystems and transport interfaces.

          To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows or X
          application runs on or can communicate with a VMS DECwindows
          system, consult the application's software product description.

          The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user
          interface to VMS. This user interface defines a powerful model
          for interacting with the VMS Operating System using a point
          and click metaphor. It includes a set of integrated desktop
          applications that demonstrate the power of this new metaphor and
          that provide VMS users with a base set of desktop tools.


                                         24

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The user environment consists of four basic components:

          1. The Session Manager provides the top-level user interface to
             a DECwindows workstation. It performs application activation,
             session-wide customization, screen printing, security manage-
             ment, and session control. The session manager also lets you
             specify the language in which DECwindows should run, provided
             that you have ordered and installed a VMS DECwindows language
             variant kit.

          2. The Window Manager provides user control for managing win-
             dows.

          3. FileView is a graphical interface to VMS file management
             that allows users to navigate through the VMS file system and
             perform operations on files.

          4. The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users
             with a traditional character cell interface for existing VMS
             features and applications. It is a ReGIS and Sixel compatible
             VT320 terminal emulator. Programs written for VT52, VT100,
             VT220, or VT320 class terminals and using VMS terminal driver
             features operate without modification in this workstation
             window. DECterm also provides workstation-oriented features
             such as mouse-based cursor positioning, variable screen
             sizes, and cutting and pasting of text between terminal
             emulators and other DECwindows applications.

          Applications

          A set of integrated desktop applications is provided as a base
          component of the DECwindows environment. These applications
          establish and demonstrate the consistent DECwindows user model.
          They also provide significant end user capabilities.

          These applications are:

          o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that
             are distributed and stored on-line

          o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator

                                         25

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          o  Calendar - A personal time management system

          o  Cardfiler - A hierarchical information storage application
             similar to an online address and/or phone book

          o  Clock - An analog and/or digital date and time display with
             notification by alarm.

          o  Compound document viewer - tools for reading documents con-
             taining compound text, graphics, and image data on terminals
             and DECwindows workstations

          o  DEBUG - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS DEBUGGER

          o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS mail facility

          o  Notepad - A simple text editor

          o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor

          o  Puzzle game - A game that challenges you to sort mixed up
             puzzle tiles

          o  TPU/EVE - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS TPU/EVE
             editor

          DECwindows workstation users can display PostScript files fea-
          turing true WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) compatibility
          between the display and any of Digital's PostScript printers.
          Display PostScript ability is available within the Compound
          Document viewer and DECwindows Mail.

          Programming Support

          The VMS DECwindows environment includes an extensive set of
          programming libraries and tools for use by developers of new ap-
          plications. These components support the development of portable
          applications by focusing on three broad areas:

          o  X Window System (X) support

          o  X User Interface (XUI) support

                                         26

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          o  Compound Document Architecture (CDA) support

          Components from each of these areas can be used in any combi-
          nation to address the needs of applications. They can also use
          the tools from a variety of different programming languages. All
          programming libraries have been provided with procedural lan-
          guage bindings in both the style of the VAX calling standard and
          the style of the MIT C language programming conventions.

          Support is provided for the following languages:

          VAX Ada               VAX FORTRAN

          VAX BASIC             VAX MACRO

          VAX BLISS-32          VAX PASCAL
          Implementation
          Language

          VAX C (VAX calling    VAX PL/I
          standard or MIT
          convention)

          X Window System (X) Programming Support

          The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib)
          provided by the VMS DECwindows environment provides basic
          resource management (windows, color maps, input devices) and
          bitmap graphics services. It defines a mapping of the X network
          protocol to a procedure library.

          The Xtoolkit programming library is also supported by the VMS
          DECwindows environment. It is described further under XUI Pro-
          gramming Support.

          X User Interface (XUI) Programming Support



                                         27

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          XUI determines the application model for Digital and third-
          party software tailored for the DECwindows environment. It
          establishes the conventions and styles that are encouraged for
          applications that share a DECwindows workstation. Applications
          use XUI components to build user interfaces that make them
          look and feel like integrated members of the Digital computing
          environment.

          The XUI Style Guide, available in the VMS DECwindows Programming
          Kit, describes the principles, philosophy, and components used
          to build consistent and well-integrated DECwindows applications.

          Its concepts are implemented by the XUI Toolkit. The XUI Toolkit
          is a superset of the X Window System Xtoolkit and contains four
          components:

          o  Xtoolkit components (known as intrinsics) for managing,
             modifying, and creating user interface objects (known as
             widgets and gadgets).

          o  DECwindows widgets and gadgets for implementing common user
             interface objects such as scroll bars, menus, and push but-
             tons

          o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions for
             performing common tasks such as cut and paste

          o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface defi-
             nition files and creating widgets and gadgets based on the
             contents of the definition files.

          The XUI Toolkit is used in conjunction with the DECwindows
          User Interface Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface
          definition files produced by this compiler contain the data to
          separate form and function in DECwindows applications and allow
          DECwindows toolkit widget and gadget details, such as menu item
          labels, to be stored separately from the toolkit and application
          run-time code. This capability allows application developers
          to prototype and modify user interface designs, separate form

                                         28

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          and function in applications, and support internationalizable
          products.

          Enhanced X Windows[TM] Display PostScript (XDPS)

          The Display PostScript system provided with VMS DECwindows
          extends the native X graphical programming environment for
          Digital DECwindows workstation users.

          X Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the
          basic X11 environment:

          o  All DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rota-
             tion angle

          o  XDPS graphics specified in a user-defined coordinate systems
             are independent of monitor density

          o  Color or gray-scale rendition are automatically modified
             to take advantage of the monitor type through either direct
             display, color dithering, or half-toning

          o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and
             executed on command

          o  Sophisticated graphics primitives such as precisely-
             controlled Bezier curves can be displayed

          o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily

          Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe Client Library.
          In addition, a converter called pswrap allows you to convert
          PostScript code into C programs which can be called from other
          languages.

          Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Programming Support

          The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications can
          use to create, read, and write files containing compound text,
          graphics, and imaging data. These files provide a vehicle for
          recording this information on disk, a medium for interchange of

                                         29

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          this data between applications, and an intermediate form from
          which high-resolution printable graphics data can be generated.

          In addition to providing support for developing new applications
          to access compound documents, VMS also provides fallback support
          allowing many existing utilities to read and operate on these
          new kinds of files.

          Transport Mechanisms

          VMS DECwindows supports three different user-selectable mech-
          anisms for transport of X network protocol packets between
          applications and display servers.

          A VMS DECwindows-specific shared memory-based transport is
          used when the DECwindows application and display server are
          located on the same workstation. This optimization provides
          significantly greater performance. It is the default transport
          under these circumstances.

          DECnet is used when the DECwindows application and display
          server are distributed across two different machines in the
          network. It is the default transport under these circumstances.

          TCP/IP is used when the DECwindows application and display
          server are distributed across two different machines in the
          network and the Digital-supplied VMS/ULTRIX Connection (UCX)
          layered product is being used to make the connection. See the
          SOFTWARE LICENSING section of this SPD for licensing details.

          Workstation Device Support

          The VMS DECwindows environment provides several software com-
          ponents to support displaying graphics and windowing output
          on and receiving keyboard and pointer driver input from VAX
          workstations.

          Device drivers are provided to support output to monochrome and
          color displays and to receive input from keyboard, mouse, and
          tablet devices.

                                         30

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          A display server compatible with the X Window System receives
          output requests from applications and translates those requests
          into driver commands. They also relay driver generated input
          events back to the applications.

          Over 400 video fonts are provided in a variety of styles and
          point sizes for use on 75 and 100 dot per inch (dpi) monitors.
          These video fonts have been designed to correspond directly
          to the fonts used by Digital's PostScript (R) printers. In
          addition, a font compiler is provided so that customers can
          make their own private fonts available on their DECwindows
          workstations and terminals.

          Multi-headed Workstation Support

          A multi-headed workstation consists of one system box, one
          keyboard and one mouse, but more than one monitor and graph-
          ics controller. It is a single user workstation. Multi-headed
          workstations provide more screen area for complex applications.

          The screens on the multiple monitors are controlled by a single
          server. The mouse cursor can be moved freely between screens,
          and the keyboard can be used to generate input to windows on
          any screen. The server implementation handles each monitor as
          a separate X11 screen. This means that a single window cannot
          cross screen boundaries; for example, users cannot drag a window
          from one monitor to another. However, users can cut and paste
          between windows on different screens, and windows may be opened
          on either screen, or both, by user applications.

          The Dual Monitor Adapter is a cable (model number BC09E-06) that
          allows two monitors to be connected at the same time to a single
          VAXstation 3100 system box (models 30, 38, 40, and 48). The
          system must include one of the 8 plane graphics options, either
          the GPX graphics or SPX graphics accelerator.

          The system must include at least one monochrome monitor, VR150
          or VR262, driven by the single plane frame buffer that is stan-
          dard on all VAXstation 3100s.

                                         31

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The second monitor, connected to the 8 plane graphics option,
          may be color, or it may be monochrome for gray scale operation.
          Supported color monitors are the VR160, VR290, VR297, VR299, and
          VRT19.

          Desktop-VMS Software

          The VMS Operating System is a component of Desktop-VMS Software.
          The full complement of VMS is delivered to the Desktop-VMS
          Software user. Desktop-VMS Software is an easy-to-use, VMS
          Operating System environment for the desktop offering simplified
          system installation and system management.

          It is delivered as a pre-integrated, pre-installed VMS system
          on compact disc that includes the following system software
          components:

          o  VMS Operating System including VMS DECwindows

          o  DECnet-VAX End Node Software

          o  VAXcluster Software

          o  Desktop-VMS "ease-of-use" Software

          Various layered products have been pre-installed on the Desktop-
          VMS software compact disc. Desktop-VMS Software is a separately
          licensed product. Please refer to to the Desktop-VMS Software
          SPD (25.F4.xx).

          Standards

          The VMS Operating System is based upon the public, national, and
          international standards listed below. These standards are Amer-
          ican National Standards Institute (ANSI), U.S. Federal Informa-
          tion Processing (FIPS), and International Standards Organization
          (ISO) standards. The following information may be useful in de-
          termining responsiveness to stated conformance requirements as
          enabled in particular commercial and/or government procurement
          solicitation documents.

                                         32

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          o  ANSI X3.4-1986: American Standard Code for Information Inter-
             change

          o  ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape (800 BPI, NRZI)

          o  ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code

          o  ANSI X3.27-1987: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic
             Tapes for Information Interchange

          o  ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (1600 BPI, PE)

          o  ANSI X3.40-1983: Unrecorded Magnetic Tape

          o  ANSI X3.41-1974: Code Extension Techniques for Use with 7-bit
             ASCII

          o  ANSI X3.42-1975: Representation of Numeric Values in Charac-
             ter Strings

          o  ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (6250 BPI, GCR)

          o  ANSI X3.131-1986 (SCSI I): Small Computer System Interface

          o  ANSI X3T9.2/89-042 (SCSI II): Small Computer System Interface
             as described in REV 10C.

          o  ANSI/IEEE 802.2-1985: Logical Link Control

          o  ANSI/IEEE 802.3-1985: Carrier Sense Multiple Access with
             Collision Detection

          o  FIPS 1-2: Code for Information Interchange, its Represen-
             tations, Subsets, and Extensions (NOTE: 1-2 includes ANSI
             X3.4-1977(86)/FIPS 15; ANSI X3.32-1973/FIPS 36; ANSI X3.41-
             1974/FIPS 35; and FIPS 7)

          o  FIPS 2-1/ANSI 3.6-1965: Perforated Tape Code for Information
             Interchange

          o  FIPS 3-1/ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape Information
             Interchange (800 CPI, NRZI)

          o  FIPS 13/ANSI X3.21-1967: Rectangular Holes in Twelve-row
             Punched Cards

                                         33

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          o  FIPS 14/ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code

          o  FIPS 16-1/ANSI X3.15-1976: Bit Sequencing of the Code for
             Information Interchange in Serial-by-bit Data Transmission
             (NOTE: FED STD 1010 adopts FIPS 16-1)

          o  FIPS 22-1/ANSI X3.1-1976: Synchronous Signaling Rates between
             Data Terminal and Data Communication Equipment (NOTE: FED STD
             1013 adopts FIPS 22-1)

          o  FIPS 25/ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Informa-
             tion Interchange (1600 CPI, Phase Encoded)

          o  FIPS 26/ANSI X3.18-1967: One Inch Perforated Paper Tape for
             Information Interchange

          o  FIPS 37/ANSI X3.36-1975: Synchronous High Speed Data Signal-
             ing Rates between Data Terminal Equipment and Data Communica-
             tion Equipment (NOTE: FED STD 1001 adopts FIPS 37)

          o  FIPS 50/ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Informa-
             tion Interchange, 6250 CPI (246 CPMM), Group Coded Recording

          o  FIPS 79/ANSI X3.27-1987: Magnetic Tape Labels and File Struc-
             ture for Information Interchange

          o  FIPS 86/ANSI X3.64-1979: Additional Controls for Use with
             American National Standard Code for Information Interchange

          o  Other FIPS not applicable

          Note:   Information regarding interchangeability of ANSI and
                  FED standards with FIPS is contained in "ADP Telecom-
                  munications Standards Index", July 1988, published and
                  maintained by the General Services Administration.

          o  ISO 646: ISO 7-bit Coded Character Set for Information Ex-
             change

          o  ISO 1001: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic Tapes For
             Information Interchange

                                         34

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          o  ISO 1863: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5 in)
             wide magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 32
             rpmm (800 rpi)

          o  ISO 1864: Information Processing - Unrecorded 12, 7 mm (0.5
             in) wide magnetic tape for information interchange - 35 ftpmm
             (800 ftpi) NRZI, 126 ftpmm (3 200 ftpi) phase encoded and 356
             ftmm (9 042 ftpi), NRZI

          o  ISO 2022: Code Extension Techniques for Use with ISO 646

          o  ISO 3307: Representations of Time of the Day

          o  ISO 3788: Information Processing - 9-track, 12 7 mm (0.5 in)
             wide magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 63
             rpmm (1 600 rpt), phase encoded

          o  ISO 4873: 8-bit Code for Information Interchange - Structure
             and Rules for Implementation

          o  ISO 5652: Recorded Magtape (6250)

          o  ISO 6429: Control Functions for Coded Character Sets

          GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

          This section describes the set of disk and memory requirements
          for the current version of VMS. The minimum hardware require-
          ments for any future version of this product may be different
          from the minimum hardware requirements of this version.

          VMS Disk Block Requirements

          Block Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 2):

          The disk block size for the VMS Operating System, Version 5.4,
          after installation is approximately 82,000 blocks. This fig-
          ure includes 5,600 blocks for page and swap files. Most systems
          will require larger page and swap files. This figure also in-
          cludes help library files which are in data-compressed format.
          Most system managers choose to expand these files (for faster
          access). The expansion requires approximately 8,500 additional
          blocks.

                                         35

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          At least 35,000 free blocks are required to upgrade from VMS
          V5.3 or V5.3-x to VMS V5.4.

          To support full VMS, a system disk of greater than 100 MB is
          recommended. When a smaller disk is used, additional tailoring
          is required prior to installing some VMS options. This does not
          include the dump file space. Refer to VMS Upgrade and Installa-
          tion Procedures Manual for information on tailoring.

          VMS DECwindows Disk Block Requirements

          The disk block size for the complete VMS DECwindows environment
          after installation is approximately 55,000 blocks. This is in
          addition to the 82,000 blocks required for the other components
          of the VMS operating system environment. A subset of the DECwin-
          dows environment can be installed. For example, programming
          support need not be installed in a user environment.

          The following list describes how many blocks are needed for each
          section:

          o  User environment and applications - 12,000 blocks. This sec-
             tion provides support for running VMS DECwindows applications
             on VAX compute servers.

          o  Workstation device support - 13,000 blocks. This number
             includes 2,300 blocks for the 75 dpi fonts and 2,800 blocks
             for the 100 dpi fonts. On 75 dpi systems, the 100 dpi fonts
             do not have to be installed. On 100 dpi systems, both sets of
             fonts must be installed.

          o  Programming support - 27,000 blocks (approximately 3,500
             per language). This number includes support for all the
             programming languages. If only a subset of languages are
             installed, the amount of disk space will be less.

          o  Example files - approximately 3,000 blocks.

          Note that the individual sizes add up to more than the total
          because some components are shared by multiple portions of the
          environment.

                                         36

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The VMS DECwindows software installation is an optional step in
          the VMS installation or upgrade procedure. It has been designed
          this way to allow users who do not need the VMS DECwindows
          software to conserve disk space and to allow systems with less
          than minimum configuration requirements to continue to run
          VMS. Please refer to VMS Installation and Upgrade Procedures
          for details concerning the partial installation of the VMS
          DECwindows software.

          Memory Requirements

          The following tables describe the minimum amount of memory
          required for a system user to install, boot, and log into a
          VMS system. To ensure satisfactory performance of applications,
          additional memory will be required.

          The minimum amount of memory supported for a standalone VMS
          system is 2 MB. This first table contains the minimum amount of
          additional memory required for the following components to be
          installed on a VMS system.

          ________________________________________________________________
          Component_________Necessary_Memory______________________________

          DECnet            .5 MB

          VAXcluster        1.5 MB

          DECwindows        1.5 MB
          with remote
          execution of
          applications

          DECwindows        2.0 MB
          with local
          execution of
          applications____________________________________________________


                                         37

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Two example configurations based on the previous table are:

          ________________________________________________________________
          System____________Minimum_Supported_Memory______________________

          DECwindows        4.0 MB
          with ap-
          plications
          executing re-
          motely, and
          DECnet

          DECwindows        6.0 MB
          with ap-
          plications
          executing
          locally, VAX-
          cluster and
          DECnet__________________________________________________________

          Note:   These are the minimum memory requirements. More mem-
                  ory will be required for satisfactory performance of
                  the operating system and DECwindows applications. The
                  performance and memory usage of VMS DECwindows systems
                  is particularly sensitive to system configuration and
                  window and application usage. Remote execution of an
                  application requires an additional system which runs the
                  application while the display of the application occurs
                  on the local workstation.

          Please refer to specific layered product Software Product De-
          scriptions for their memory requirements.

          Please refer to VMS documentation for more information on per-
          formance.

          SOFTWARE LICENSING


                                         38

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The VMS software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital's Standard Terms and Conditions.

          The VMS license also includes the license for the VAX Rdb/VMS
          Run-time Option. VAX Rdb/VMS Run-time has separate documenta-
          tion, media kit and service products. This allows the running
          of an application developed using VAX Rdb/VMS. However, should
          one want to perform Rdb development a separate Rdb media and
          documentation kit must be purchased. Refer to SPD 25.59.xx for
          further information.

          VMS DECwindows is an integral part of the VMS Operating System
          requiring no separate license.

          Customers who wish to run DECwindows over TCP/IP need only pur-
          chase the VMS/ULTRIX Connection product media and documentation
          kit. A separate license is not required. Customers who want to
          utilize the full VMS/ULTRIX Connection functionality (FTP, NFS,
          TELNET) do need to purchase a separate license. Refer to the
          VMS/ULTRIX Connection System Support Addendum (SPD 25.A4.xx) for
          required versions.

          Please see the Third Party Licensing section in Appendix C, for
          information regarding the Adobe licensing.

          The System Integrated Products (SIPs), VAXcluster Software (SPD
          29.78.xx), DECnet-VAX (SPD 25.03.xx), VAX Volume Shadowing (SPD
          27.29.xx) and VAX RMS Journaling (SPD 27.58.xx), are separately
          licensed products. Please refer to the appropriate product's SPD
          for more information.

          VMS License Information

          The VMS Operating System uses one of four different kinds of
          licenses depending on the hardware and software configurations
          used and currently supported. This information is also provided
          in the applicable country's Price List.


                                         39

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Digital provides the proper license type with the purchase of
          the system. However, all VMS license types are not available for
          all system models.

          These are the four types of VMS licenses:

          1. VMS Availability License

          This type of license provides unlimited use to the users on
          a defined system. These licenses are sometimes referred to as
          capacity licenses. VMS availability licenses are sized according
          to system type.

          2. VMS Multiuser License

          This type of license provides use according to a specified num-
          ber of concurrent users. This is an activity-based license. The
          Operating System User License provides the customer with the
          right to use the operating system up to the limit of users spec-
          ified in the license. An Operating System "User" is a person who
          is logged onto the system and is using the system interactively.
          Interactive use of the operating system includes the display of
          information upon any video or hardcopy display product whether
          in a DECwindows/X Windows environment or otherwise.

          3. VMS Workstation License

          This type of license provides use for a single-user on a VAX
          Workstation.

          4. VMS Server License

          This type of license provides for the non-interactive use of
          VMS.

          VAX/VMS based VAXservers are sold with a VMS File and Appli-
          cation Server License. The intent of a VAX/VMS based VAXserver
          is to provide file, print, application and compute 'services'
          to 'clients' who have remotely submitted their requests (for
          example via network/remote submit/batch jobs, etc.)

                                         40

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The software licensing implications are that no direct operating
          system log-ons are intended upon the VAX/VMS based VAXserver.
          One direct log on is allowed for system management purposes
          only.

          While remote submission of VAX/VMS based layered products for
          execution upon a VAX/VMS based VAXserver is allowed, interactive
          use (direct log-on and execution) of VAX/VMS based layered
          products is prohibited.

          Not all VMS license types are available for all system models.

          LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

          The VMS Operating System supports the License Management Facil-
          ity.

          If no VMS license is registered and activated using the License
          Management Facility, then a single login is permitted for system
          management purposes through the system console (OPA0:).

          Several of the VMS license types are based on the number of
          concurrent users called an activity license. Every product
          has the option to define an activity as related to the License
          Management Facility. VMS defines activities, sometimes referred
          to as VMS "users" as follows:

          o  Each remote terminal connection is considered an activity.
             This is true even if you set host to your local node (SET
             HOST 0).

          o  Each connection from a terminal server is considered an
             activity.

          o  A multiple-window session on a workstation is considered one
             activity, regardless of the number of windows.

          o  A batch job is not considered an activity.

          o  A remote network connection that is a connection other than a
             remote terminal connection, is not considered an activity.

                                         41

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          DOCUMENTATION

          Extensive documentation is available for VMS. The documenta-
          tion is organized into functional subkits, based on usage. For
          example, all system management manuals are in one subkit. An
          easy-to-use desk-top set of manuals is also available for users
          who do not require extensive documentation.

          Documentation for VMS DECwindows is available in two differ-
          ent sets. The VMS DECwindows User Kit is for the end and the
          VMS DECwindows Programming Kit is for the DECwindows software
          developer.

          In addition, the VMS Online Documentation Library compact disc
          contains the following VMS documentation, which can be read
          using the DECwindows Bookreader application:

          o  VMS Base Documentation Set

          o  VMS Extended Documentation Set

          o  VMS DECwindows User Kit and Programmer Kit *

          o  Selected VMS Layered Product Documentation

             *  With the exception of the Adobe PostScript Documentation
                which is not available online.

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          This section contains order numbers for VMS media, licenses,
          documentation, and services.

          Software License: QL-001A*-**

          Media and Documentation

          With Base Documentation Set: QA-09SA*-H*
          With Extended Documentation Set: QA-001A*-H*

                                         42

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Additional Documentation Sets

          Base Documentation Set: QA-09SAA-GZ
          Extended Documentation Set: QA-001AA-GZ
          DECwindows User Kit Documentation:[1]
          QA-09SAB-GZ
          DECwindows Programmers Kit Documentation:
          QA-001AM-GZ
          VMS Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc:
          QA-VYR8A-G8

          [1]Included in both VMS Base Documentation and Extended Documen-
          tation Sets

          Software Product Services

          Software Support Service:[2] QT-001A*-**

          Media and Documentation Update Service

          With Base Documentation Set: QT-09SA*-E*
          With Extended Documentation Set: QT-001A*-E*

          Documentation Only Update Service

          Base Documentation Set: QT-09SAA-KZ Extended Documentation Set:
          QT-001AA-KZ DECwindows Programmers Kit Documentation: QT-001AM-
          KZ VMS Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc: QT-VYR8A-C8

          [2]A variety of integrated and a la carte Hardware and Software
          Products are available. For additional information, please
          contact your local office.

          The Software Media and Extended Documentation Set (QA-001A*-H*)
          is recommended for users managing high-end VAX systems e.g., VAX
          8600 or VAX 8830, VAXcluster systems, or DECnet-VAX networks.
          The Software Media and Base Documentation Set (QA-09SA*-H*) is
          recommended for managers of small standalone systems and for
          general end-users.

                                         43

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
             able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
             price book.

          DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

          Disk: Compact Disc

          Tape: 9-track 1600 BPI Magnetic tape, TK50 Streaming Tape

          The VMS Operating System is also available as part of the VMS
          Consolidated Software Distribution on compact disc. The VMS
          Documentation is also available as part of the VMS Online Docu-
          mentation Library on compact disc.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
          the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
          Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD and the applicable Digi-
          tal Standard Terms and Conditions.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
          more information, contact your local Digital office.

          Supported Hardware for VMS, VMS DECwindows, VAXcluster and
          DECnet-VAX

          This section of the SPD contains four parts: Hardware Charts,
          Appendix A, Appendix B and Appendix C.

          The charts list the hardware that VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-
          VAX, and VAXcluster Software support. Combinations of hardware
          options are subject to limitations such as bandwidth, physical
          configuration constraints, and electrical load and power supply.

          Appendix A describes system-specific restrictions for the con-
          figurations listed.

                                         44

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Appendix B describes Digital terminals, disks, tapes, con-
          trollers, communications options, and VAXcluster options. Some
          restrictions for specific devices are listed if applicable.

          The content of this hardware configuration appendix is intended
          to specify the device limitations and provide a general guide.
          It does not describe all possible hardware configurations or
          circumstances. Any particular configuration should be dis-
          cussed with Digital. Contact Digital for the most up-to-date
          information on possible hardware configurations.

          Digital reserves the right to change the number and type of
          devices supported by VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX, and VAX-
          cluster Software. The minimum hardware requirements for future
          versions and updates of VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX, and
          VAXcluster Software may be different from current hardware
          requirements. For configuration details about VAX hardware,
          refer to the VAX System and Options Catalog and the Networks and
          Communications Buyers Guide.

          Refer to the individual SPDs for DECnet-VAX and VAXcluster
          Software for detailed product information.

          ________________________________________________________________
          Product_Name______SPD_Number____________________________________

          DECnet-VAX        SPD 25.03.xx

          VAXcluster        SPD 29.78.xx
          Software________________________________________________________

          How to Read Charts

          The first column lists the VAX system, the media (tape, disk, or
          compact disc) from which the VMS Operating System can be loaded
          onto the system disk, and the maximum number of busses supported
          on the system.


                                         45

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          The second column lists the disk controllers and drives that can
          be used on the system. A disk controller can be used with any
          disk drive listed next to it: for example, on a MicroVAX II or
          VAXstation II system the RQDX3 disk controller can be used with
          an RD52, RD53, RD54, RX50, or RX33 disk drive.

          The third column lists the tape controllers and drives that can
          be used on the system. The tape controller can be used with any
          tape drive listed next to it: for example, on a MicroVAX II or
          VAXstation II system, the TQK50 controller can be used with the
          TK50 tape drive.

          The fourth column lists the communications options available
          for the system. See the Load Unit Table in the DECnet-VAX SPD to
          calculate the number of adapters allowed on each system.

          The fifth column lists the VAXcluster options (Ethernet and
          Computer Interconnect) available for connecting systems into
          VAXcluster Configurations. The listed Ethernet devices may also
          be used for network connections.

          The sixth column lists other hardware that can be used and
          the maximum amount of memory allowed on the systems in each
          category.















                                         46

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                           (Q-bus)              (Q-bus)                            (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX    KDA50     RA-        TQK50    TK50       Asynch-  CXA16*+    DEQNA      DRV11-
          II,                   series*             TK70                           DELQA      WA*
          VAXstation                       TQK70    TS05                CXB16*+    DESQ#      LPV11
          II                                        TU81-                                     VCB01-
                                           TSV05    Plus*               CXY08*                KP
                                                    RV20*               DZV11                 (VsII)
                                           KLESI                        DHV11*                VCB02-
                                                                        DHQ11                 B
                                                                        DZQ11                 (VsII/GPX)

                                                                                              VCB02-
                                                                                              D
                                                                                              (VsII/GPX)

                                                                                              RQDXE
                                                                                              16MB
                                                                                              Max
                                                                                              Mem

          (Load       RQDX2     RD51
          Media)                RD52
          TK50                  RD53
          Magtape               RX50
          RX33##
          CDROM



                                         47

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                      RQDX3     RD52
                                RD53
                                RD54
                                RX50
                                RX33

                      KRQ50     RRD50
                                RRD40

                      KLESI     RC25

          (BUSSES)          (DSSI)                             Synch-   DMV11
                                                                        DSV11
          1 Q-
          bus
          2
          DSSI**

                      KFQSA     RF30
                                RF71

          * Can be used on a MicroVAX II system only.

          ** Only available via the KFQSA.

          + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.




                                         48

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

          # Only available with BA200-series enclosures.

          ##_VMS_distribution_on_this_media_has_been_retired._____________

                                                                                   (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX    Integral  RD32       TZK50    TK50       Asynch-  DST32*+    Integral   VS40X
          2000                  RD53                                                          (Vs2000)
          VAXstation            RD54                                    DSH32
          2000                  RX33                                                          14MB
                                                                                              Max
                                                                                              Mem

          (Load                                                Synch-   DST32*+
          Media)
          TK50                                                          DSH32*
          RX33#

          (BUSSES)

          N/A

          * Can be used on a MicroVAX 2000 system only. # VMS distribution on this media has been
          retired.






                                         49

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          + Concurrent use of the DST32 and the DHT32 is not supported. Supports Display
          PostScript.




































                                         50

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                    VAXcluster
                                                                                    Op-
                                                                                    tions
                                                                                    (Eth-
                             Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System       _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)   Miscellaneous

          _____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE________________

                             (SCSI)              (SCSI)                             (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX     Integral  RX23       TKZ50    TK50Z      DSH32               Integral  32MB
          3100                   RZ23                                                         Max
          VAXserver                                             (1                            Mem
          3100                   RZ24                           sync.
                                 RRD40                          & 8
                                                                async.
                                                                lines)

          (Load
          Media*)
          TK50
          CDROM

          (BUSSES)
          Integral
          SCSI

          *_Factory-loaded_RZ23_and_RZ24_on_all_configurations.___________

                            (SCSI)              (SCSI)                             (Ethernet)








                                         51

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          VAXstation  Integral  RZ22       Integral TK50Z                          Integral   WS01X
          3100                  RZ23                TZ30                                      VCB02
          Series                RZ24                                                          Graph-
          (Load                 RZ55                                                          ics
          Media)                RZ56                                                          VS40X-
          TK50                  RRD40                                                         PA
          CDROM                 RX23                                                          Graph-
                                                                                              ics
                                                                                              Coprocessor

                                                                                              32MB
                                                                                              Max
                                                                                              Mem

          (BUS)
          SCSI

          Supports Display PostScript.


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________

                                                                                   (Ethernet)

          VAXstation  RQDX3     RD53       TQK50    TK50       Asynch-  DHV11      DELQA      Graphics
          3200                  RD54                TS05                DZQ11                 Sub-
                                           TSV05                                              system
                                                                                              for
                                                                                              the
                                                                                              Vs3200

          (Load                                                Synch-   DSV11                 32MB
          Media)                                                                              Max
          TK50                                                                                Mem
          CDROM



                                         52

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          (BUS)       KRQ50     RRD40
          1 Q-bus               RRD50

          Supports Display PostScript.


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________































                                         53

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                            (DSSI)              (Q-bus)                            (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX    Integral  RF30       TQK70    TK70       Asynch-  CXA16+                52MB
          3300/3400             RF31                TK50                CXB16+                Max
                      KFQSA     RF71       TQK50                        CXY08                 Mem
          VAXserver
          3300/3400

          (Load            (Q-bus)
          Media)
          TK50
          CDROM
          Magtape

                      KRQ50     RRD40      TSV05    TS05
                                RRD50

          (BUSSES)    KDA50     RA-        KLESI    TU81+      Synch-   DSV11
                                series
          1 DSSI*
          1 Q-bus

          * Second DSSI available only via the KFQSA.

          + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.

          Note:_Refer_to_the_Systems_and_Options_Catalog_for_listing_of_supported Q-bus options.



                                         54

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




                           (Q-bus)              (Q-bus)                            (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX    RQDX3     RD53*      TQK70    TK70       Asynch-  CXA16+     DELQA      Graphics
          3500                  RD54*               TK50                CXB16+     DESQA      Sub-
          VAXserver                        TQK50    TS05                CXY08                 system
          3500                                                                                for
          VAXstation                       TSV05                                              the
          3500                                                                                Vs3500

          (Load       KDA50     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Synch-   DSV11                 64MB
          Media)      KRQ50     series              Plus                                      Max
          TK50                             RV20                                               Mem
          Magtape
          CDROM

          (BUSSES)          (DSSI)

          1 Q-
          bus
          1 DSSI
          **

                      KRQ50     RRD40
                                RRD50

          * Available on MicroVAX 3500 system only.

          + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.

          ** Only available via the KFQSA. Supports Display
          PostScript.

          Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus options.





                                         55

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34





          ___________________________________________________________________________________________




































                                         56

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                            (SCSI)                                                 (Ethernet)

          VAXstation  I/O       RZ55       TQK70    TK70       Asynch-  CXA16+     Integral   Graphic
          3520        Adapter   RZ56                                    CXB16+                Subsys-
          VAXstation            RRD40                                   CXY08
          3540                                                                                tem
                                                                                              for
                                                                                              the
                                                                                              Vs3520/3540

                                                                                              VCB03
                                                                                              op-
                                                                                              tional
                                                                                              graph-
                                                                                              ics

          (Load                                                Synch-   DSV11                 64MB
          Media)                                                                              Max
          TK50                                                                                Mem
          CDROM

          (BUSSES)

          1 SCSI
          1 Q-bus

          Supports Display PostScript.



                                         57

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

          + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.

          Note:_Refer_to_the_Systems_and_Options_Catalog_for_listing_of_supported Q-bus options.

                           (Q-bus)              (Q-bus)                            (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX    KDA50     RA-        TQK70    TK70       Asynch-  CXA16+     DELQA      64MB
          3600        KRQ50     series              TK50                CXB16+     DESQA      Max
          VAXserver             RRD40      TQK50    TS05                CXY08                 Mem
          3600                  RRD50               TU81-
          VAXserver                        TSV05    Plus
          3602                                      RV20
          (Load                            KLESI
          Media)
          TK50
          Magtape
          CDROM

          (BUSSES)          (DSSI)                             Synch-   DSV11

          1 Q-
          bus
          1
          DSSI**






                                         58

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




                      KFQSA     RF30
                                RF31
                                RF71

          + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.

          ** Only available via the KFQSA.

          Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus options.


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________


























                                         59

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                            (DSSI)              (Q-bus)                            (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX    KFQSA     RF30       TQK70    TK70       Asynch-  CXA16+     DESQA      64MB
          3800                  RF31                TK50                CXB16+     DELQA      Max
          VAXserver             RF71       TQK50    TS05                CXY08                 Mem
          3800                                      TU81-
          (Load                            TSV05    Plus
          Media)
          TK50                             KLESI
          CDROM

          (BUSSES)         (Q-bus)                             Synch-   DSV11

          1 Q-
          bus
          1 DSSI*

                      KRQ50     RRD40
                      KDA50     RRD50
                                RA-
                                series

          * Only available via the KFQSA.

          + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.

          Note:_Refer_to_the_Systems_and_Options_Catalog_for_listing_of_supported Q-bus options.



                                         60

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




                           (Q-bus)              (Q-bus)                            (Ethernet)

          MicroVAX    KDA50     RA-        TQK70    TK70       Asynch-  CXA16+     DESQA      64MB
          3900        KRQ50     series              TK50                CXB16+     DELQA      Max
          VAXserver             RRD40      TQK50    TU81-               CXY08                 Mem
          3900                  RRD50               Plus
          (Load                            KLESI    TS05
          Media)
          TK50                             TSV05
          CDROM
          Magtape

          (BUS)             (DSSI)                             Synch-   DSV11
          1 Q-bus
          1 DSSI*

                      KFQSA     RF30
                                RF31
                                RF71

          * Only available via the KFQSA.

          + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.

          Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus options.


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________










                                         61

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                           (UNIBUS)            (UNIBUS)                            (Ethernet)

          VAX-        UDA50     RA-        TS11     TS11       Asynch-  DMF32      DEUNA+     CR11
          11/730                series     TUK50    TU80                DZ11       DELUA+     DR11-W
          (Load                                     TU81                DZ32                  DMF32-
          Media)                           KLESI    TU81-               DMZ32                 LP
          RL02*                                     Plus                DHU11                 LP11
          Magtape                                                                             LPA11
                                                                                              FP730

          (BUS)       RK711     RK07                           Synch-   DMF32                 5MB
          1           RL211     RL02                                    DMR11                 Max
          UNIBUS      RX211     RX02                                                          Mem
                      RUX50     RX50

                      (Integral)

                      IDC       RL02
                                R80

          * VMS distribution on this media has been retired.

          + VAX-11/730 systems are not supported in VAXcluster
          systems.________________________________________________________

                           (UNIBUS)            (UNIBUS)                            (Ethernet)




                                         62

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          VAX-        UDA50     RA-        TS11     TS11       Asynch-  DMF32      DEUNA      DMF32-
          11/750      RK711     series     KLESI    TU80                DZ11       DELUA      LP
          (Load       RL211     RK07                TU81                DZ32       (CI)       DR11-W
          Media)      RX211     RL02                TU81-               DMZ32      CI750      DR750
          RL02*       KLESI     RX02                Plus                DHU11                 DW750
          RK07*       RUX50     RC25                RV20                                      FP750
          RA60*                 RX50                                                          H7112
          Magtape                                                                             KU750
                                                                                              LPA11
                                                                                              RH750
                                                                                              LP11
                                                                                              14MB
                                                                                              Max
                                                                                              Mem

                                           TUK50    TK50
                                                    TA-
                                           (CI)     series
                                           HSC

          (BUSSES)        (MASSBUS)           (MASSBUS )       Synch-   DMF32
                                                                        DMR11
          2
          UNIBUS
          3 MASS-
          BUS

                                RM03       TM03     TE16
                                RM05       TM78     TU77
                                RM80                TU78
                                RP06
                                RP07






                                         63

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




                      (CI)      ESE-20
                      HSC       RA-
                                series

          * VMS is not distributed on this media type.


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________






























                                         64

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                           (UNIBUS)            (UNIBUS)                            (Ethernet)

          VAX-        UDA50     RA-        TS11     TS11       Asynch-  DMF32      DEUNA      DM32-
          11/780                series     KLESI    TU80                DZ11       DELUA      FP
          VAX-                                      TU81                DMZ32      (CI)       DR11-W
          11/785                                    TU81-               DHU11      CI780      DR780
          (Load                                     Plus                                      DW780
          Media)                                    RV20                                      H7112
          RK07*                                                                               FP780**
          RA60*
          Magtape                                                                             FP785***

          (BUSSES)    RK711     RK06       TUK50    TK50       Synch-   DMF32                 KE780**
                      RL211     RK07                TA-                 DMR11
          4           RX211     RL02       (CI)     series                                    KU780**
          UNIBUS      KLESI     RX02       HCS
          4 MASS-     RUX50     RC25                                                          RH780
          BUS                   RX50                                                          LP11
                                                                                              64MB
                                                                                              Max
                                                                                              Mem

                          (MASSBUS)            (MASSBUS)







                                         65

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                                RM03       TM03     TE16
                                RM05       TM78     TU45
                                RM80                TU77
                                RP05                TU78
                                RP06
                                RP07

                      (CI)      ESE-20
                      HSC       RA-
                                series

          * VMS is not distributed on this media.

          ** These options are used on the VAX-11/780 only.

          ***_Used_on_the_VAX-11/785._____________________________________

                                                                                  (Ethernet)

          VAXft        KFE52     RF31       KFE52    TF70     Synch-   DSF32      Integral   128MB
          3000-310                                                                           Max
          (Load                                                                              Mem
          Media)
          TK50






                                         66

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          (BUSSES)
          2 DSSI


          __________________________________________________________________________________________

































                                         67

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                            (DSSI)              (Q-bus)                            (Ethernet)

          VAX         Integral  RF30       TQK70    TK70       Asynch-  CXA16+     Integral   128MB
          4000        &         RF31                TS05                CXB16+                Max
          Model       KFQSA     RF71       TQK50    TU81-               CXY08      DESQA      Mem
          300                                       Plus                           DELQA
          VAXserver                        TSV05
          4000
          Model                            KLESI
          300
          (Load
          Media)
          TK50
          CDROM

                           (Q-bus)                             Synch-   DSV11

          (BUS)       KDA50     RA-
          1 Q-bus     KRQ50     series
          4 DSSI

                            (SCSI)

                      KZQSA     RRD40

          Note:_Factory_loaded_software_on_all_configurations.____________




                                         68

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




                           (VAXBI)              (VAXBI)                 VAXBI      (Ethernet)

          VAX         KDB50     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Asynch-  DMB32      DEBNA      LP11*
          6000-       KDM70     series              Plus                DHB32      DEBNI      DMB32-
          200         TM32                          RV20                           DEMNA      LP
          Series+                                                                             DR11-
          VAXserver                                                                           W*
          6000-                                                                               DWMUA*
          210                                                                                 DRB32
          VAXserver
          6000-
          220

          (Load
          Media)
          TK50
          16MT9

                      (CI)                 (CI)                                    (CI)

          (BUSSES)    HSC       ESE-20     HSC      TA-        Synch-   DMB32      CIBCA-     512MB
                                RA-        KDM70    series              DSB32      AA         Max
          6 VAXBI               series                                             CIBCA-     Mem
          1                                                                        BA
          UNIBUS                                                                   CIXCD-
                                                                                   AB

          + Formerly named the VAX 6210, 6220, 6230, 6240.

          * Supported on the VAX 6000-210 and VAX 6000-220 systems
          only.


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________




                                         69

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                           (VAXBI)                  (VAXBI)             (VAXBI)    (Ethernet)

          VAX         KDB50     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Asynch-  DMB32      DEBNA      LP11*
          6000-       KDM70     series              Plus                DHB32      DEBNI      DMB32-
          300         TM32                 TBK70    TK70                           DEMNA      M
          Series+                                                                             DR11-
          VAXserver                                                                           W*
          6000-                                                                               DRB32
          310/320                                                                             DWMUA*
          (Load                                                                               512MB
          Media)                                                                              Max
          TK50                                                                                Mem

          (BUSSES)    (CI)      ESE-20     (CI)     TA-        Synch-   DMB32      (CI)
                      HSC       RA-        HSC      series              DSB32      CIBCA-
          6 VAXBI               series     KDM70                                   AA
          1                                                                        CIBCA-
          UNIBUS*                                                                  BA
                                                                                   CIXCD-
                                                                                   AB

          + Formerly named the VAX 6310, 6320, 6330, 6340, 6360.

          * Supported on the VAX 6000-310 and VAX 6000-320 systems
          only.___________________________________________________________

                           (VAXBI)              (VAXBI)             (VAXBI)        (Ethernet)



                                         70

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          VAX         KDB50     RA-        KLESI    TU80-      Asynch-  DMB32      DEBNA      LPA11
          6000-       KDM70     series              Plus                DHB32      DEBNI      DR11-W
          400         TM32                 TBK70    TK70                           DEMNA      512MB
          Series                                    TK50                                      Max
          VAXserver                        TBK50                                              Mem
          6000-                                                                               FV64A
          410/420
          (Load
          Media)
          TK50

          (BUSSES)                         (CI)     TA-        Synch-   DMB32      (CI)
                                           HSC      series              DSB32      CIBCA-
          6 VAXBI                                                                  BA
          1                                                                        CIXCD-
          UNIBUS                                                                   AB


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________

                            (VAXBI)              (VAXBI)                 (VAXBI)    (Ethernet)

          VAX          KDB50     RA-        KLESI    TU80-      Asynch-  DMB32      DEBNA      LPA11
          6000-500     KDM70     series              Plus                DHB32      DEBNI      DR11-W
          Series       TM32                 TBK70    TK70                           DEMNA      512MB
          VAXserver                                  TK50                                      Max
          6000-                             TBK50                                              Mem
          510/520                                                                              FV64A
          (Load
          Media)
          InfoServer
          100
          TK50





                                         71

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          (BUSSES)                          (CI)     TA-        Synch-   DMB32      (CI)
          6 VAXBI                           HSC      series              DSB32      CIBCA-
                                                                                    BA
                                                                                    CIXCD-
                                                                                    AB


          ____________________________________________________________________________________________






























                                         72

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                           (VAXBI)              (VAXBI)                 (VAXBI)    (Ethernet)

          VAX         KDB50     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Asynch-  DHB32      DEBNA      DMB32-
          8200        (CI)      series              Plus                DMB32      DEBNI      LP
          VAX         HSC       ESE-20     TM32     RV20                (UNIBUS)   DELUA      DR11-W
          8250                             (UNIBUS) RV64                           (CI)       DWBUA
          (Load                                     TU80                DHU11      CIBCA-     DRB32
          Media)                           TS11     TU81                DMF32      AA         LP11
          Magtape                          TUK50    TU81-               DMZ32      CIBCA-     128MB
          RA60*                                     Plus                           BA         Max
                                           (CI)     TK50                           CIBCI      Mem
                                           HSC      TA-
                                                    series

          (BUSSES)              RA-                            Synch-   (VAXBI)
                                series
          1 VAXBI                                                       DMB32
          1                                                             DSB32
          UNIBUS

          *_VMS_Operating_System_is_not_distributed_on_RA60_media.________

                           (VAXBI)                  (VAXBI)             (VAXBI)    (Ethernet)







                                         73

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          VAX         KDB50     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Asynch-  DHB32      DEBNA      DMB32-
          8300        (CI)      series              Plus                DMB32      DEBNI      LP
          VAX         HSC       ESE-20     TM32     RV20                (UNIBUS)   DELUA      DR11-W
          8350                             (UNIBUS) RV64                           (CI)       DWBUA
          (Load                                     TU80                DHU11      CIBCA-     DRB32
          Media)                           TS11     TU81-               DMF32      AA         LP11
          Magtape                          TUK50    Plus                DMZ32      CIBCA-     128MB
          RA60*                                     TK50                           BA         Max
                                           (CI)     TA-                            CIBCI      Mem
                                           HSC      series

          (BUSSES)              RA-                            Synch-   DMB32
                                series                                  DSB32
          1 VAXBI
          1
          UNIBUS

          * VMS Operating System is not distributed on RA60 media.


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________

                           (VAXBI)                  (VAXBI)             (VAXBI)    (Ethernet)

          VAX         KDB50     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Asynch-  DHB32      DEBNA      DMB32-
          85xx                  series              Plus                DMB32      DEBNI      LP
          (Load                                     RV20                (UNIBUS)   DELUA      DR11-W
          Media)                                    RV64                           (CI)       DWBUA
          Magtape                                                       DHU11      CIBCA-     DRB32
                                                                        DMF32      AA         LP11
                                                                        DMZ32      CIBCA-     256MB
                                                                                   BA         Max
                                                                                   CIBCI      Mem





                                         74

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          (BUSSES)    (CI)      ESE-20     (CI)     TA-        Synch-   (VAXBI)
                      HSC       RA-        HSC      series              DMB32
          2 VAXBI               series                                  DSB32
          1
          UNIBUS


          ___________________________________________________________________________________________






























                                         75

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                           (UNIBUS)            (UNIBUS)                            (Ethernet)

          VAX         UDA50     RA-        TS11     TS11       Asynch-  DMF32      DEUNA      DMF32-
          8600        RL211     series     KLESI    TU80                DZ11       DELUA      LP
          VAX         RX211     RL02                TU81                DZ32                  DR11-W
          8650        RUX50     RX02       TUK50    TU81-               DMZ32                 DR780
          (Load       KLESI     RX50                Plus                DHU11                 DW780
          Media)                RC25       (CI)     RV20                                      FP86-
          Magtape                          HSC      TK50                                      AA
                                                    TA-                                       RH780
                                                    series                                    260MB
                                                                                              Max
                                                                                              Mem

          (BUSSES)    (MASSBUS)                (MASSBUS)       Synch-   DMF32      (CI)
                                                                        DMR11      CI780
          7
          UNIBUS
          6 MASS-
          BUS
          2 SBI

                                RM03       TM03     TE16
                                RM05       TM78     TU77
                                RM80                TU78
                                RP05
                                RP06
                                RP07


                                         76

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                      (Integral)RA60       IDTC     TU81
                                RA80
                      IDTC      RA81
                      (CI)      RA82
                      HSC       ESE-20
                                RA-
          ______________________series____________________________________























                                         77

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34


          ________________________________________________________________
                                                                                   VAXcluster
                                                                                   Op-
                                                                                   tions
                                                                                   (Eth-
                            Disks                Tapes           Communication     er-
          System      _________________    ________________         Options        net/CI)    Miscellaneous

          ____________CTRL______DRIVE______CTRL_____DRIVE_________________

                           (VAXBI)                  (VAXBI)             (VAXBI)    (Ethernet)

          VAX         KD850     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Asynch-  DHB32      DEBNA      DMB32-
          8700                  series              Plus                DMB32      DEBNI      LP
          VAX                                       RV20                           DELUA      DR11-W
          8800                                      RV64                                      DRB32
          VAX
          8810
          (Load
          Media)
          Magtape

          (BUSSES     (CI)      ESE-20     (CI)     TA-                 (UNIBUS)   (CI)       DWBUA
          4 VAXBI     HSC       RA-        HSC      series                         CIBCA-     LP11
          2                     series                                  DMF32      AA         512MB
          UNIBUS                                                        DMZ32      CIBCA-     Max
                                                                                   BA         Mem
                                                                                   CIBCI

                                                               Synch-   (VAXBI)

                                                                        DMB32
          ______________________________________________________________DSB32

                           (VAXBI)              (VAXBI)                            (Ethernet)





                                         78

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          VAX         KD850     RA-        KLESI    TU81-      Asynch-  DMB32      DEBNA      DMB32-
          8810*                 series              Plus                DHB32      DEBNI      LP
          VAX                                       RV20                           (CI)       DR11-W
          8820                                      RV64                           CIBCA-     DWBUA
          VAX                                                                      AA         DRB32
          8830                                                                     CIBCA-     LP11
          VAX                                                                      BA         512MB
          8840                                                                     CIBCI**    Max
          (Load                                                                               Mem
          Media)
          Magtape

          (BUSSES)    (CI)      ESE-20                         Synch-   DMB32
                      HSC       RA-                                     DSB32
          6 VAXBI               series
          1
          UNIBUS

          * The VAX 8810 can support a maximum of 4 VAXBIs.

          ** Supported only on the VAX 8810.

















                                         79

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34





          ___________________________________________________________________________________________

          VAX         (XMI)     RA-        KLESI    RV20       Asynch-  DMB32      DEMNA      512MB
          9000-       KDM70     series              RV64                DHB32      (4         Max
          210                   ESE-20     KDM70    TA-                            Max)       Mem
          VAX                                       series                         (CI)       DRB32-
          9000-                                                                    CIXCD      M/E/W/C
          410                                                                      (4
          (Load                                                                    Max)       DWMBB(VAXBI
          Media)                                                                              EXP)
          9-track                                                                             KDB50
          Tape
          (BUSSES)

          1 XMI
          4 VAXBI

                      (CI)      ESE-20     (CI)                Synch-   DMB32
                      HSC       RA-        HSC                          DSB32
                                series

          ___________________________________________________________________________________________

          NOTE: The VMS software that runs on the MicroVAX console subsystem is licensed for use
          only with standard console activities. No other use is intended or implied.












                                         80

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Appendix A

          This appendix describes some restrictions to the system config-
          urations listed in the charts. See the VAX System and Options
          Catalog and the Network and Communications Buyers Guide for
          details of VAX hardware configurations.

          MicroVAX I/VAXstation I Systems

          The final version of VMS which supports these systems is VMS
          V5.1-1.

          MicroVAX II System

          The CX series boards and DESQA controller can be used in a BA213
          cabinet only.

          MicroVAX 2000 and VAXstation 2000 Systems

          DECnet-VAX supports only one asynchronous data/modem RS-232C
          serial line up to 9600 baud on the integral 4 line asynchronous
          controller.

          VAXserver 3602 System

          The VAXserver 3602 is two VAXserver 3600 systems.

          VAX-11/725

          VMS V5.1 was the final version to support the VAX-11/725.

          VAX-11/730 System

          The VAX-11/730 system supports additional memory to a maximum of
          5 MB for systems configured with R80/RL02 or dual RL02 disks.
          Other VAX-11/730 system configurations support a maximum of 3 MB
          of memory for the VAX-11/730 only.

          A maximum of two RL02 disk drives can be added to the dual RL02
          and the R80/RL02 configuration for VAX-11/730 only.

          The VAX-11/730 systems supports one UNIBUS magnetic tape subsys-
          tem.

                                         81

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Refer to Hardware System and Options Catalogue for the different
          hardware options supported on these systems.

          The VMS DECwindows environment is not supported on these sys-
          tems.

          Appendix B

          This appendix describes Digital terminals, disks, tapes, con-
          trollers, communications options, and VAXcluster options. Termi-
          nals and Terminal Line Interfaces

          To prevent input from overflowing a buffer, terminals use the
          ASCII control characters DC1 and DC3 for synchronization as
          defined by Digital's DEC STD 111, Revision A.

          The following table lists the terminals that are supported by
          VMS:

          VT52        VT100-      VT200-
                      series      series

          VT300-      VT1000-     LA-         LQP02
          series      series      series

          Terminals on Professional 350, Rainbow 100, and DECmate II
          systems emulate VT100 terminals.

          Only limited support is available for the VT52. The VT131, when
          running an application, operates in block mode. When interacting
          with VMS and its associated utilities, the VT131 only operates
          in VT100 (or interactive) mode and not in block mode.

          Note:   The VT1000 is a monochrome windowing terminal that
                  supports standard ANSI applications and "X" windows.
                  The transport protocols supported are LAT for VMS. The
                  product supports 15" and 19" monotors.

          Disks

                                         82

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          To support full VMS, a system disk of greater than 100 MB is
          recommended. When a smaller disk is used, additional tailoring
          is required prior to installing some VMS options. This does not
          include the dump file space. Refer to Upgrade and Installation
          Procedures Manual for information on tailoring.

          ESE-20    120 MB solid state    (MSCP)
                    disk drive

          RA60      205 MB removable      (MSCP)
                    disk drive

          RA70      280 MB fixed disk     (MSCP)
                    drive

          RA80      128 MB fixed disk     (MSCP)
                    drive

          RA81      456 MB fixed disk     (MSCP)
                    drive

          RA82      622 MB fixed disk     (MSCP)
                    drive

          RA90      1.2 GB fixed disk     (MSCP)
                    drive

          RA92      1.5 GB fixed disk     (MSCP)
                    drive

          RC25 *    2 disks each 26       (Q-bus, UNIBUS)
                    MB (1 fixed and 1
                    removable) disk
                    drive with shared
                    spindle




                                         83

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          RD32 *    VAX 42 MB fixed
                    disk drive for
                    MicroVAX 2000 and
                    VAXstation 2000

          RD51 *    10 MB fixed disk      (Q-bus)
                    drive

          RD52 *    31 MB fixed disk      (Q-bus)
                    drive




























                                         84

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          RD53 +    71 MB fixed disk      (Q-bus, or Integral Controller
                    drive                 on MicroVAX 2000)

          RD54      159 MB fixed disk     (Q-bus, or Integral Controller
                    drive                 on MicroVAX 2000)

          RF30      150 MB disk drive     (DSSI)

          RF31-     381 MB disk drive     (DSSI)
          KA

          RF31-     381 MB shock-         (DSSI)
          JA        mounted removable
                    disk drive

          RF71      400 MB disk drive     (DSSI)

          RK06 *    14 MB removable       (UNIBUS)
                    disk drive

          RK07 *    28 MB removable       (UNIBUS)
                    disk drive

          RL02 *    10 MB removable       (UNIBUS)
                    disk drive

          RM03 +    67 MB removable       (MASSBUS)
                    disk drive

          RM05      256 MB removable      (MASSBUS)
                    disk drive

          RM80      124 MB fixed disk     (MASSBUS)
                    drive




                                         85

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          R80 +     124 MB fixed
                    disk drive for
                    VAX-11/725 and
                    VAX-11/730

          RRD50     600 MB read-only      (Q-bus)
          *         optical disk drive

          RRD40     600 MB read-only      (Q-bus and SCSI)
          *         optical disk drive

          RP05 +    88 MB removable       (MASSBUS)
                    disk drive

          RP06      176 MB removable      (MASSBUS)
                    disk drive

          RP07      516 MB fixed disk     (MASSBUS)
                    drive (2.2 MB/sec
                    transfer rate is
                    supported if the
                    RH780 is at REV B1
                    or greater for the
                    VAX-11/780, VAX-
                    11/785, VAX 8600
                    and VAX 8650.)

          RX02 *    512K byte             (UNIBUS)
                    diskette. The
                    RX02 drive also
                    writes using
                    single-density
                    RX01 diskettes.





                                         86

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          RX50 *    400K byte diskette    (Q-bus, or Integral Controller
                                          on MicroVAX 2000)

          RX33 *    1.2 MB diskette.      (Q-bus, or Integral Controller
                    Requires minimum      on MicroVAX 2000)
                    RQDX3 microcode of
                    V3.0.

          RX23      1.47 MB diskette
                    (SCSI)

          RV20 *    2 GB Write Once       (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
                    Read Many Optical
                    disk

          RV64 *    2 GB Write Once       (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
                    Read Many Optical
                    disk sub-system

          RZ22 *    52 MB SCSI disk

          RZ23      104 MB SCSI disk

          RZ24      209 MB SCSI disk

          RZ55      332 MB SCSI disk

          RZ56      665 MB SCSI disk

          *    Device cannot be used as a VMS system disk.

          +    Device cannot be used as a VMS system disk with VMS DECwin-
               dows environment.

          Tapes



                                         87

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          TA78    STI TU78              (MSCP)

          TA79    STI TU79              (MSCP)

          TA81    STI TU81              (MSCP)

          TA90    1.2 GB, tape car-     (MSCP)
                  tridge subsystem
                  (5" 200 MB car-
                  tridge)

          TK50    95 MB, 5 1/4"         (Q-bus and SCSI)
                  streaming tape
                  cartridge

          TK70    296 MB, 5 1/4"        (Q-bus)
                  streaming tape
                  cartridge

          TZ30    Tape drive for the    (SCSI)
                  VAXstation 3100

          TE16    9-track magnetic      (MASSBUS)
                  tape

          TM32    9 track tape          (VAXBI)
                  controller only
                  with large record
                  support

          TU77    9-track magnetic      (MASSBUS)
                  tape

          TU78    9-track magnetic      (MASSBUS)
                  tape



                                         88

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          TU80    9-track magnetic      (UNIBUS)
                  tape

          TU81    9-track magnetic      (UNIBUS)
                  tape

          TU81-   Streaming 9-track     (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
          Plus    magnetic tape

          TS05    9-track magnetic      (Q-bus)
                  tape

          TS11    9-track magnetic      (UNIBUS)
                  tape
























                                         89

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Controllers

          DMB32-     VAXBI DMA parallel high speed line printer con-
          LP         troller.

          DRB32      High speed general purpose parallel interface for
                     VAXBI (systems).

          DMF32-     Synchronous/Asynchronous communication option with
          LP         printer port for use on UNIBUS based systems.

          HSC40      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
                     TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version
                     of 5.00.)

          HSC50      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
                     TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version
                     4.00.)

          HSC70      Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and
                     TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version
                     5.00.)

          IDC        Integrated Disk Controller for VAX-11/725 and VAX-
                     11/730 systems.

          IDTC       Integral Disk and Tape Controller for VAX 8600 and
                     VAX 8650 systems.

          LPA11-K    Microprocessor controller for laboratory acquisition
                     I/O devices, accommodating up to two AD11-Ks, one
                     AA11-K, one KW11-K, two AM11-Ks, and five DR11-Ks.
                     One LPA11-K controller is supported per UNIBUS and a
                     maximum of two are supported per system.





                                         90

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          KDA50      Q-bus MSCP disk controller. The KDA50 disk controller
                     supports up to four of the following drives: RA60,
                     RA70, RA80, RA81 and RA82.

          KDB50      VAXBI MSCP disk controller. The KDB50 disk controller
                     supports up to four of the following drives: RA60,
                     RA80, RA81, and RA82.

          KDM70      The KDM70 is an intelligent MSCP/TMSCP mass-storage
                     controller which supports RA Series Disks and Stor-
                     age Arrays, TA Series Tape, and ESE20. The minimum
                     version 2.2 is requrired with VMS.

          KFQSA      Q-bus DSSI bus storage adapter. This adapter allows
                     up to seven DSSI storage devices to attach to the
                     DSSI bus. (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed in a
                     Dual-Host Configuration.)

          KLESI      Q-bus, UNIBUS and VAXBI tape controller for the TU81-
                     Plus, RV20 or RC25.

          KRQ50      Q-bus controller for the RRD50/RRD40 compact disk
                     reader.

          LP11       UNIBUS parallel high-speed line printer controller
                     for the LPxx printers.

          LPV11      Q-bus parallel high-speed line printer controller.

          RK711      UNIBUS disk controller for RK07 disk drives.

          RL211      UNIBUS disk controller for the RL02 disk drive.






                                         91

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          RQDXx      Q-bus disk controller for MicroVAX and VAXstation
                     systems. There is a RQDX1, RQDX2 and a RQDX3 con-
                     troller. The RQDXx disk controller supports as many
                     as four disk units, with each RX50 diskette drive
                     counting as two units. Due to controller limitations
                     the system supports a maximum of 4 devices; the num-
                     ber of RD/RX devices the system supports depends on
                     the enclosure. The RQDX3 disk controller is required
                     for the RD54 and the RX33 drives.

          RX211      UNIBUS diskette controller for two RX02 drives. One
                     RX211 diskette controller is supported per system.

          RUX50      UNIBUS diskette controller for RX50 drives. One RUX50
                     diskette controller is supported per system.

          TF70       290 MB TK70 cartridge tape drive with DSSI adapter.

          TM03       MASSBUS tape controller for the TE16 and TU77 mag-
                     netic tape drives.

          TM78       MASSBUS tape controller for the TU78 magnetic tape
                     drive.

          TQK50      Q-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
                     drive.

          TQK70      Q-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape
                     drive.

          TSV05      Q-bus tape controller for the TS05 magnetic tape
                     drive.

          TS11       UNIBUS tape controller for the TS11 magnetic tape
                     drive.



                                         92

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          TBK70      BI-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape
                     drive.

          TUK50      UNIBUS tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape
                     drive. One TUK50 tape controller is supported per
                     system.

          UDA50      UNIBUS MSCP disk controller. The UDA50 controller
                     must have a minimum microcode version of REV 3. The
                     UDA50 controller supports up to 4 of the following
                     disk drives: RA60, RA80, RA81, and RA82.



























                                         93

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          MASSBUS Adapter/Tape Subsystems

          These include a MASSBUS adapter, a tape formatter, and a trans-
          port (a TU77 for the TxU77 subsystems, a TE16 transport for
          TxE16 subsystem, or a TU78 for the TEU78 subsystem).

          A maximum of three additional TU77 magnetic tape transports can
          be added to a TxU77 subsystem and a maximum of seven additional
          TE16 magnetic tape transports can be added to a TxE16 subsystem.
          Different magnetic tape transports cannot be mixed on the same
          tape subsystem.

          With disks and magnetic tape transports mixed on the same MASS-
          BUS, the following rules apply:

          o  Disks can be added to a magnetic tape subsystem, to a maximum
             of seven additional disks per tape subsystem.

          o  Tapes cannot be added to a disk subsystem.

          Asynchronous Terminal Controllers

          CXA16     16 line serial terminal multiplexer (DEC-423), maximum
                    baud rate supported: 38400. (No modem control) (Q-bus)

          CXB16     16 line serial terminal multiplexer (RS422), maximum
                    baud rate supported: 38400. (No modem control) (Q-bus)

          CXY08     8 line serial terminal multiplexer (RS232), maximum
                    baud rate supported: 19200. (Full modem control) (Q-
                    bus)

          DHB32     16 line asynchronous terminal controller for VAXBI,
                    maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (VAXBI)

          DHF11     32 line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423),
                    maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (No modem control)
                    (Q-bus)

                                         94

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          DHT32     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423) (No
                    modem control) (MicroVAX 2000)

          DHQ11     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
                    C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 19200.
                    (Full modem control) (Q-bus)

          DHU11     16 line asynchronous terminal controller (RS-232-C),
                    maximum baud rates supported: VMS 19200, DECnet-VAX
                    9600. (Full modem control) (UNIBUS)

          DHV11     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
                    or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: VMS 19200,
                    DECnet-VAX 9600. (Full modem control) (Q-bus)

          DMB32     8 line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum baud
                    rates supported: VMS 19200, DECnet-VAX 9600. (Full
                    modem control) (VAXBI)

          DMF32     8 line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum
                    baud rates supported: VMS supports 19200, DECnet-VAX
                    supports 9600. (Full modem control on first 2 lines)
                    (UNIBUS)

          DMZ32     24 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-
                    232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: VMS
                    19200 , DECnet-VAX 9600. (Modem support dependent on
                    configuration) (UNIBUS)

          DSH32     1 line synchronous (full modem control) and 8 line
                    asynchronous (no modem control) communications con-
                    troller for the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423 devices are
                    supported. Maximum baud rates supported: VMS 19.2 KBPS
                    (kilobits/second).




                                         95

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          DZ11      8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
                    C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600.
                    (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

          DZ32      8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
                    C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600.
                    (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

          DZQ11     4 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
                    C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: VMS
                    supports 19200, DECnet-VAX supports 9600. (Partial
                    modem control) (Q-bus)

          DZV11     4 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-
                    C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: VMS
                    supports 19200, DECnet-VAX supports 9600. (Partial
                    modem control) (Q-bus)

          Integral asynchronous serial lines for the MicroVAX 2000 and the
          VAXstation 2000.

          On the MicroVAX 2000, one line is the modem/data line and three
          are data- only lines. On the VAXstation 2000, the lines support
          keyboard, mouse, modem connection, and printer or plotter.
          DECnet-VAX supports all four asynchronous data/modem RS-232C
          serial lines up to 9.6 kilobits/second on the integral 4 line
          asynchronous controller for MicroVAX 2000.











                                         96

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Synchronous Controllers

          The VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers software product con-
          tains the synchronous device drivers and is required when using
          synchronous communication options. Refer to SPD 29.64.xx for
          more information.

          DMB32     Point-to-point synchronous interface. (VAXBI)

          DMC11     High-speed local point-to-point synchronous inter-
                    face; retired device no longer offered as an option.
                    (UNIBUS)

          DMF32     Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
                    (UNIBUS)

          DMP11     Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface;
                    (UNIBUS) retired device no longer offered as an op-
                    tion.

          DMR11     Remote point-to-point synchronous interface; (UNIBUS)
                    replaces DMC11.

          DMV11     Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
                    (Q-bus)

          DSB32     Two line, multiple protocol, synchronous adapter.
                    (VAXBI)

          DSH32     1 line synchronous (full modem control) and 8 line
                    asynchronous (no modem control) communications con-
                    troller for the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423 devices are
                    supported. Maximum baud rates supported: VMS 19.2 KBPS
                    (kilobits/second). 9.6 KBPS for MicroVAX 2000, etc.





                                         97

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          DST32     Synchronous single line support for DDCMP up to 9.6
                    kilobits/second, full duplex for MicroVAX 2000 sys-
                    tems. Concurrent use with the DHT32 is not supported.

          DSV11     Synchronous, 2 line, half or full-duplex point-to
                    point communication interface supporting DDCMP (1 or 2
                    lines up to 64 kbps)

          DSF32     DEC WANcontroller 620 - Two line synchronous commu-
                    nications controller designed specifically for the
                    VAXft 3000 processors, supporting DDCMP. DDCMP is sup-
                    ported at speeds up to 64 kbps per line for a two-line
                    operation.

          Ethernet Options

          DEUNA     Ethernet to UNIBUS controller.

          DELUA     Ethernet to UNIBUS controller. The minimum revision
                    level required is F1.

          DEBNA     Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

          DEBNI     Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

          DEMNA     The DEMNA is a high performance network adapter that
                    connects XMI systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE
                    802.3 local area networks.

          DESVA     Ethernet controller interface.








                                         98

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          DEQNA     Ethernet controller to Q-bus. The minimum revision
                    level required is K3. All systems utilizing a DEQNA
                    must operate with software data checking enabled.
                    Since AUTOGEN will automatically set the correct
                    parameter, no system management intervention is re-
                    quired. Not supported in clusters of over 42 nodes.

          DELQA     Ethernet controller to Q-bus. This is the replacement
                    for DEQNA. The minimum revision level required is C3.

          DESQA     Ethernet controller to Q-bus for S-BOX configurations.

          KFE52     DSSI/Ethernet Adapter for the VAXft 3000. Minimum of
                    two adapters per system providing redundant connection
                    to the Ethernet and the DSSI buses.

          CI Options

          VAXcluster Software may support multiple CI adapters per sys-
          tem. Refer to the VAXcluster Software product description (SPD
          29.78.xx) for the supported configurations.

          CI750       CI Adapter for VAX-11/750 systems. (Minimum mi-
                      crocode version REV 8.7 is required.)

          CI780       CI Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and
                      VAX 8650 systems. (Minimum microcode version REV 8.7
                      is required.)

          CIBCI       CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode
                      version REV 8.7 is required.)

          CIBCA-AA    Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum mi-
                      crocode version REV 7.5 is required.)




                                         99

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          CIBCA-BA    Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum mi-
                      crocode version REV 5.2 is required.)

          CIXCD-AA    Native CI Adapter for VAX 9xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
                      microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

          CIXCD-AB    Native CI Adapter for VAX 6xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
                      microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)






























                                         100

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Miscellaneous

          CR11        Card reader. One CR11 card reader is supported per
                      system. (UNIBUS)

          DRV11-WA    General purpose DMA interface. (Q-bus)

          DR11-W      General purpose high-speed DMA interface - one DR11-
                      W interface supported per UNIBUS.

          DR750       High performance general purpose interface for the
                      VAX-11/750. One DR750 interface is supported per
                      system. This device may not be used in conjunction
                      with the CI750.

          DR780       High performance general purpose interface for the
                      VAX-11/780 and VAX-11/785. One DR780 interface is
                      supported per system. On the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650
                      as many as four per system are permitted provided
                      that the M8297-YA is used.

          DSSI        Digital Storage Systems Interconnect.

          DWBUA       XMI to UNIBUS adapter.

          DWMBA       XMI to BI adapter; also the adaptor used to connect
                      the XMI to VAX expander cabinet.

          DW750       UNIBUS Adapter for second UNIBUS for the VAX-11/750
                      system.

          DW780       UNIBUS Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX 8600 and VAX
                      8650.






                                         101

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          FP730       Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/730 sys-
                      tem.

          FP750       Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/750 sys-
                      tem.

          FP780       Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/780 sys-
                      tem.

          FP785       Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/785 sys-
                      tem.

          FP86-AA     Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX 8600 and VAX
                      8650 systems.

          FV64A       Vector Processing option for the VAX 6000-400.

          H7112       Memory battery back-up for VAX-11/750, VAX-
                      11/780,VAX-11/785, VAX 8600 and VAX 8650 systems.
                      This is required for power-fail/ recovery.

          KE780       G and H floating point microcode for the VAX-11/780
                      system.

          KU780       User writable control store for the VAX-11/780
                      system.

          MA780       Multiport shared memory. A multiple version VMS 4.7
                      and VMS 5.x-n VAXcluster system is not supported if
                      the system is configured with MA780 memory.

          RH750       MASSBUS adapter for the VAX-11/750 system.

          RH780       MASSBUS controller for the VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785,
                      VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems.



                                         102

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34




          SBI         System Backplane Interconnect for the VAX-11/780,
                      VAX-11/785, and I/O BUS for the VAX 8600 and VAX
                      8650 systems.

          SCSI        Small Computer System Interconnect.

          VS40X       4-plane graphics co-processor.

          WS01X       VAXstation 31000 SPX Graphics option.

          InfoServer  InfoServer 100 is a stand-alone Ethernet-based vir-
          100         tual disk server. The server has locally attached
                      SCSI removable CDROMs and SCSI disk storage. VMS
                      V5.4 supports virtual disk reads. For other fea-
                      tures, please refer to the InfoServer 100 Software
                      Product Description.

          [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation,
                VAXserver and DECnet are trademarks of Digital Equipment
                Corporation.


















                                         103

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          Appendix C

          Third Party Licensing Section

          Adobe Systems Incorporated, License Terms and Agreement

          1. Licensor grants to Licensee a nonexclusive sublicense, sub-
             ject to other provisions hereof (a) to use the PostScript
             Software ("Software") solely for Licensee's own internal
             business purposes on a Single Licensed System; (b) to use
             the digitally-encoded machine-readable outline and bitmap
             programs ("Font Programs") provided by Licensor in a spe-
             cial encrypted format ("Coded Font Programs") and identified
             herewith to reproduce and display designs, styles, weights,
             and versions of letters, numerals, characters and symbols
             ("Typefaces" and "Screen Typefaces") solely for Licensee's
             own customary business or personal purposes on the screen of
             the Licensed System; and (c) to use the trademarks used by
             Licensor to identify the Coded Font Programs and Typefaces
             reproduced therefrom ("Trademarks"). Licensee may assign
             its rights under this Agreement to a licensee of all of Li-
             censee's right, title and interest to such Software and Coded
             Font Programs provided the licensee agrees to be bound by all
             of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

          2. Licensee acknowledges that the Software, Coded Font Programs,
             Typefaces and Trademarks are proprietary to Licensor and its
             suppliers. Licensee agrees to hold the Software and Coded
             Font Programs in confidence, disclosing the Software and
             Coded Font Programs only to authorized employees having a
             need to use the Software and Coded Font Programs as permitted
             by this Agreement and to take all reasonable precautions to
             prevent disclosure to other parties.

          3. Licensee will not make or have made, or permit to be made,
             any copies of the Software or Coded Font Programs or portions
             thereof, except as necessary for its use with a single Li-
             censed System hereunder. Licensee agrees that any such copies
             shall contain the same proprietary notices which appear on or
             in the Software or the Coded Font Programs.

                                         104

 


          VMS Operating System, Version 5.4                   SPD 25.01.34



          4. Except as stated above, this Agreement does not grant Li-
             censee any rights to patents, copyrights, trade secrets,
             trade names, trademarks (whether registered or unregistered),
             or any other rights, franchises, or licenses in respect of
             the Software, Coded Font Programs, Typefaces, or Trademarks.
             Licensee will not adapt or use any trademark or trade name
             which is likely to be similar to or confusing with that of
             Licensor or any of its suppliers or take any other action
             which impairs or reduces the trademark rights of Licensor or
             its suppliers. Any use of the Trademarks must identify the
             applicable ``Trademark Owner'' set forth in Schedule A hereto
             as the owner of such Trademarks. At the reasonable request
             of Licensor, Licensee must supply samples of any Typeface
             identified by a Trademark.

          5. Licensee agrees that it will not attempt to alter, disassem-
             ble, decrypt or reverse compile the Software or Coded Font
             Programs.

          6. Licensee acknowledges that the laws and regulations of the
             United States restrict the export and re-export of commodi-
             ties and technical data of United States origin, including
             the Software or Coded Font Programs. Licensee agrees that
             it will not export or re-export the Software or Coded Font
             Programs in any form without the appropriate United States
             and foreign government licenses. Licensee agrees that its
             obligations pursuant to this section shall survive and con-
             tinue after any termination or expiration of rights under
             this Agreement.

          7. The software licensed hereunder is restricted to use to gen-
             erate screen displays on a single Licensed System having a
             screen resolution of less than 150 dots/per/inch. Licensee
             agrees not to make use of the software, directly or indi-
             rectly, to print bitmap images with print resolutions of 150
             dots/per/inch or greater, or to generate Fonts or Typefaces
             for use other than with the Licensed System. Any failure of
             Licensee to comply with this provision is a material breach
             of this End User Agreement.

                                         105
