 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:   DEC Computer Integrated Telephony   SPD 29.92.04
                           Applications Interface for VMS,
           		   Version 3.0

           DESCRIPTION

           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony (CIT) Applications Inter-
           face is a software product which provides programmers with
           an applications interface comprising a library of VMS rou-
           tines. These routines allow the applications programmer to
           establish and control logical communications channels be-
           tween a user process on a VAX and devices attached to a CIT-
           compatible PBX.

           These channels can be used for the following:

           o  Basic call processing such as making and accepting tele-
              phone calls

           o  Additional call processing such as transferring and con-
              ferencing calls

           o  Monitoring the status of telephones

           The CIT Applications Interface routines also allow the pro-
           grammer to establish communications channels with one or more
           DECvoice modules.

           A DECvoice module provides a voice response unit that can
           be used for voice digitization (recorded voice) and voice
           synthesis (text-to-speech synthesis). For example, messages
           are recorded over a telephone and the voice synthesis con-
           verts text messages to speech. Using CIT routines, the DECvoice
           module can make, answer, and hangup telephone calls; and gen-
           erate and recognize tones on the telephone line.

                                    DIGITAL           September 1991

                                                         AE-LN54E-TE

 



           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           The CIT Applications Interface passes the application's re-
           quests to the DEC CIT Server software, which must be installed
           on a VAX system connected to a CIT-compatible PBX over a syn-
           chronous communications link. For more information, refer
           to the DEC CIT Server for VMS Software Product Description
           (SPD 29.91.xx).

           DEC CIT Applications Interface Routines

           DEC CIT Applications Interface routines can be grouped ac-
           cording to the following functions:

           o  Control of the Communication Channel

              -  Establishing and releasing logical communications chan-
                 nels

              -  Monitoring a channel which is assigned to a telephony
                 device or entity (such as an ACD group)

           o  Basic Call Processing

              -  Making calls

              -  Hanging up calls

           o  Holding and retrieving calls

           o  Canceling calls and responding to incomplete calls

           o  Transferring and conferencing calls

           o  Answering calls

           o  Predictive dialling

           o  Call routing

           o  Voice digitization (recording voice)

           o  Voice synthesis (text to speech)

           o  Voice recognition (speaker independent)

           o  Voice message handling

                                       2

 



           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           o  Generating and recognizing tones

           Supported Routines

           The following routines are supported for controlling the com-
           munications channels:

           o  Assign

           o  Deassign

           o  Set Device Attributes

              -  Set Monitor

              -  Set Call Forward

              -  Do-not-disturb

              -  Set or Cancel Message Waiting Lamp/Indicator

              -  Set ACD Agent Status

           o  Get Device Attributes

           o  Get Channel Information

           o  Get Event

           The Get Event routine returns call progress information which
           includes call states, events, and call party information.

           Basic Call Processing functions set up calls, disconnect calls,
           and include the following routines:

           o  Make Call

           o  Go offhook (DECvoice specific)

           o  Hangup Call

           Routines for holding and retrieving calls include:

           o  Suspend Call

           o  Resume Call

                                       3

 


           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           o  Pickup Call

           o  Swap-with-Held

           o  Retrieve Held

           Routines for canceling calls and responding to incomplete
           calls include:

           o  Cancel Call

           o  Respond to Inactive Call

           For transferring and conferencing calls, the following rou-
           tines are available:

           o  Initiate Transfer Call

           o  Transfer Call

           o  Initiate Conference Call

           o  Conference Call

           For answering calls, the routine provided is:

           o  Answer Call

           For routing calls, the following routines are available:

           o  Deflect Call

           o  Get Route Query

           o  Respond to Route Query

           Although all of the above routines are available through the
           DEC CIT Applications Interface, not all PBXs support the full
           range of functions over their CIT-links. In addition, only
           some of the above telephony routines are available for use
           with a DECvoice module.

                                       4

 



           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           For recording voice messages (digitization), the following
           routines are available:

           o  Record

           o  Record End

           o  Record Pause

           o  Record Resume

           For creating voice messages from text (voice synthesis) the
           following routines are available:

           o  Speak String

           o  Create text message

           For playing text or digitized voice messages:

           o  Play

           o  Play End

           o  Play Pause

           o  Play Resume

           o  Position

           For speaker-independent voice recognition:

           o  Recognize

           The following voice message handling routines enable an ap-
           plication to control voice data on the client and server,
           identify voice messages, concatenate messages, convert from
           one message format to another, and display information on
           the structure of a message:

           o  Convert

           o  Create Context

           o  Create PCM Message

                                       5

 



           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           o  Get Context Information

           o  Get Message Information

           o  Free Context

           o  Free Message

           o  Load Data

           o  Unload Data

           The following routines are available for generating and de-
           tecting tones:

           o  Make Tone

           o  Make DTMF

           o  Get DTMF Key

           Documentation

           DEC CIT Applications Interface documentation includes:

           o  DEC CIT Applications Interface for VMS - Programming

           o  DEC CIT Applications Interface for VMS - Programming Ref-
              erence

           o  DEC CIT Applications Interface - CSTA Information

           o  DEC CIT Applications Interface for VMS - Installation and
              Configuration

           PTT Requirements

           Although the PBX manufacturers are responsible for ensur-
           ing that the PBX software meets PTT regulations, some of those
           regulations may apply to application software. If in doubt,
           refer to the appropriate documentation supplied by the PTT
           authorities for specific details.

                                       6

 


           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           INSTALLATION

           Only experienced customers should attempt installation of
           this product. Digital recommends that all other customers
           purchase Digital's Installation Services. These services pro-
           vide for installation of the software product by an expe-
           rienced Digital Software Specialist.

           In addition, the installation requirements of the DEC CIT
           Server for VMS (SPD 29.91.xx) must be met before using the
           CIT Applications Interface.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Systems, components, and peripherals as specified in the Sys-
           tem Support Addendum (SSA 29.92.04-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           o  VMS Operating System.

           o  DECnet-VAX Phase IV (end-node or full-function node li-
              cense) if more than one VAX is part of the configuration.

           o  DEC CIT Server for VMS (CITSR) software must be installed
              either on the same node as the CIT Applications Inter-
              face software, or on another node linked by DECnet to the
              CIT node with the Applications Interface software.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and
           required versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 29.92.04-
           x).









                                       7

 



           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-VGXA*-**
           Software Media: QA-VGXAA-H*
           Software Documentation: QA-VGXAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-VGXA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity
           basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.








                                       8

 



           DEC Computer Integrated Telephony          SPD 29.92.04
           Applications Interface for VMS, Version 3.0

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECnet-VAX, DECvoice,
                VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver, and VMS are
                trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.



























                                       9
