 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECimage Application Services          SPD
           25.E8.03                for VMS, Version 3.1

           DESCRIPTION

           DECimage Application Services for VMS provides an applica-
           tion programming interface (API) and programming tools for
           a family of image capture, processing, and display services.
           Services are grouped into the following sets:

           Image Input       -  image scanner device drivers, de-
           Services (IIS)       vice setup, and image data acquisi-
                                tion
           Image Services    -  image datatype support, file I/O,
           Library (ISL)        image processing and manipulation,
                                data encoding conversion
           Image Display     -  device independent image rendition
           Services (IDS)       control, image display, and X Image
                                Extension support
           X Image Exten-    -  extension to the X Core protocol
           sions (XIE)          for communicating image resource
                                request with an X Image Server
                                Extension

           DECimage Application Services is language independent and
           is intended to enable application developers and systems in-
           tegrators to handle bitonal, gray scale (photographic), and
           RGB (red, green, blue) color image data. DECimage Applica-
           tion Services offers a consistent interface that conforms
           to the VAX-11 Procedure Calling and Condition Handling Stan-
           dard and MIT C bindings and routine names for source code
           transportability. Examples are provided in BASIC, FORTRAN,
           and C.

                                    DIGITAL            November 1991

                                                         AE-MI21D-TE

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1

           DECimage Application Services supports CCITT, Group III (1D
           and 2D), and Group IV (2D) (CCITT Standards T.4 and T.6) rec-
           ommendations for bitonal (facsimile) image data compression
           schemes and the JPEG R5 Baseline recommended standard for
           continuous-tone image data compression. It also supports the
           X Window System standard, DECwindows, Motif[TM], and the PostScript[R]
           Language Reference industry standard. It complies with Dig-
           ital's Imaging System Architecture (DISA), Document Inter-
           change Format (DDIF), and Compound Document Architecture (CDA).

           DECimage Application Services features a condition handling
           facility (CHF) to provide error signaling that is portable
           between VMS and ULTRIX. CHF provides one common interface
           for both VMS and ULTRIX applications and includes messag-
           ing support services.

           The features included in each set of image services are listed
           below:

           Image Input Services (IIS)

           o  Device drivers for the MD300, MD400, and MD410 image scan-
              ners.

           o  Assign/deassign local or remote image input device, re-
              serving the device for exclusive use and then releasing
              the device. This includes support for remote node access
              and mixed VMS and ULTRIX scanner environments.

           o  Get, set, and reset the device attributes.

           o  Read image data synchronously from the device and com-
              bine the data with the image attributes to create and de-
              liver an image frame to the application.

           o  Acquire image data synchronously or asynchronously from
              the device to a specified buffer that has been preallo-
              cated by the application.

           o  Cancel asynchronous image data acquisition.

                                       2

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1

           Image Services Library (ISL)

           o  Frame services

              -  Create/delete image frame in memory

              -  Allocate/free/deallocate/store data plane in buffer

              -  Get/set single image and image frame attributes

           o  Import/export bitmap to/from application buffer

           o  Create/delete region of interest within a frame for pro-
              cessing

           o  Formatting services

              -  Open/close a DDIF file

              -  Create/delete a DDIF stream for reading or writing

              -  Import/export a DDIF frame

              -  Export DDIF page break (hard or soft) into a DDIF stream
                 or file

              -  Export bitonal Sixel or PostScript

              -  Compress/decompress bitonal image data using CCITT,
                 Group III (1D and 2D), and Group IV (2D) facsimile com-
                 pression schemes

              -  Compress/decompress grayscale and color image data us-
                 ing JPEG R5 Baseline compression scheme

           o  Domain adjustment

              -  Copy all or portion of image into new image frame

              -  Dither or reduce the bits per pixel

              -  Flip or mirror the image, horizontally and/or verti-
                 cally

              -  Rotate the image around the Z axis

              -  Scale or change the dimensions of the image

                                       3

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1

           o  Image operator services

              -  Combine (16 logical point operations)

              -  Filters for enhancement, edge detection, and noise re-
                 duction

              -  Pixel remapping based on look-up tables or remapping
                 functions provided by the programmer

              -  Tone scale adjustment to enhance contrast

           o  Statistical services

              -  Create/delete histogram of intensities for in-memory
                 image

           o  Image processing primitive services

              -  General purpose convolution engine for filtering func-
                 tions

           Image Display Services (IDS)

           o  Services for display of images on DECwindows workstations,
              DECwindows terminals, and supported hardcopy devices

           o  Rendition of bitonal, continuous-tone monochrome, and continuous-
              tone RGB color images

           o  DECwindows and Motif image widgets with scroll bars to
              render and display an image or portion of an image and
              to interactively roam through the image

           o  Widget creation routines and tools

           o  Manage sharing of colors and grayscale shades between ap-
              plications

           o  Color Sixel output for the LJ250 color printer

           o  Transparent utilization of X Image Server Extension ca-
              pabilities, if available, via X Image Extension proto-
              col

                                       4

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1

           X Image Extension (XIE):

           XIE includes a Client and Server component. The Client al-
           lows access to XIE-compliant X Servers including X termi-
           nals such as the DECimage 1200. The Server provides X Server-
           based image rendition support for VAXstations. It also sup-
           ports use of the IIIL Image accelerator option for the VAXs-
           tation 3100.

           o  Session Services - allows clients to initialize and ter-
              minate a session with an X Image Server Extension.

           o  Resource Services - allows clients to create, query, copy,
              and delete one of the following X Image Extensions Server
              resources:

                 Photomap - image objects that contain the image data
                 and closely associated attributes

                 IDC - image domain context to define the subset or re-
                 gion of an image or process and act as an area operand
                 in area image operations

                 Photoflo - image process context that describes the
                 relationship between the various transfer, enhance-
                 ment, and rendition processes

           o  Server/client image/export services - allows clients to
              read and write image data within the X Image Server Ex-
              tension resource from and to core DECwindows X server draw-
              ables.

           o  Transport services - allows the transfer of image data
              to and from the client and X Image Server Extension in
              compressed or uncompressed form.

           o  Process services - provides for the application of low
              level image operators and image data, primarily in sup-
              port of preparation for or improvement of a display.


                                       5

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1

           o  Statistic services - provides clients with the procedures
              to generate statistical information such as the mean, vari-
              ance, standard deviation, maximum, and minimum about the
              data within an image.

           o  Process control services - provides clients with the abil-
              ity to define and apply pipelines containing transport,
              process, and display operations.

           o  Event services - allows clients to select or query X Im-
              age Server Extension specific events.

           DCL IMAGE is a command line interface to specific functions.
           DCL IMAGE commands include:

           o  IMAGE SCAN (only supports the MD300 Scanner) allows the
              user to create a new revisable form image file (DDIF) by
              feeding a page through a scanner and directing the re-
              sulting image data into the specified image file. Pro-
              vides limited control over these scanner features: bright-
              ness, compression, contrast, mode (lineart or halftone),
              and resolution.

           o  IMAGE RENDER converts a DDIF bitonal or continuous-tone
              image file into a format suitable for output, display,
              or printing on a specific device. It adjusts the image
              file to match the type, characteristics, and presenta-
              tion level protocol of the output device.

           o  IMAGE VIEW permits the user to see a final form bitonal
              or continuous tone image file on a display device that
              supports Sixel, DDIF, or X Window System format.

           o  IMAGE ADJUST allows the user to create a new revisable
              form image file from an existing revisable form image file
              (bitonal or continuous tone), allowing three adjustments:
              crop or extracting a piece of the original image; scale
              (enlarge or reduce) the original image; and rotate or re-
              orient the original image.


                                       6

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1

           o  IMAGE CONVERT provides conversion of the Microtek[R] Eye-
              Star[R] bitonal image file format to DDIF format for in-
              clusion in compound documents.


           SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

           Source code examples in VAX C, VAX BASIC, and VAX FORTRAN
           are provided to show the programmer interface to Applica-
           tion Services.

           Language-specific files for definition of structures, flags,
           and constants needed to interface Application Services are
           provided.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and/or hardware configuration as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 25.E8.03-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS DECwindows Motif

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.E8.03-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
           dows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-892A*-**
           Software Media: QA-892AA-H*
           Software Documentation: QA-892AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-892A*-**




                                       7

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support:

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R]   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Sys-
               tems, Incorporated.



                                       8

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.03
           for VMS, Version 3.1


           [R]   Microtek and EyeStar are registered trademarks of
               Microtek Labs, Inc.

           [TM]Motif is a trademark of Open Software Foundation,
               Inc.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, CI, DEC, DECimage, DECnet,
               DECwindows, LN03-PLUS, MD300, MD400, MD410, MicroVAX,
               TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAX C, VAX BASIC, VAX FORTRAN,
               VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS
               are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.





























                                       9
