 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1   SPD
     32.48.01

     DESCRIPTION

     The DECmcc software implements Digital's Enterprise Management
     Architecture (EMA) director model, consistent with the ISO/OSI
     management framework. The DECmcc Basic Management System (BMS)
     software, initially implemented under the VMS Operating System,
     allows users to control, monitor and test manageable objects
     (entities) in a network.

     The EMA Director Model defines a management platform called
     a director, and cooperating but independent software compo-
     nents named "management modules." DECmcc BMS is comprised of a
     director and management modules of the following types:

     o  Access Modules (AMs) provide access to and information about
        different classes of entities.

     o  Function Modules (FMs) provide high-level management func-
        tions for managed entities.

     o  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user inter-
        face for Function modules.

     The core of the DECmcc software is the Executive which con-
     sists of a management kernel and a set of "function modules."
     The Executive also includes a Management Information Repository
     (MIR) which defines a consistent structure for viewing manage-
     ment data. Together they form DECmcc's operating environment for
     co-existence and interoperation of management modules.

                                  DIGITAL                  March 1991

                                                          AE-PC86B-TE

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     The DECmcc BMS software allows a user to observe and control a
     selected group of DECnet-VAX Phase IV and many other entities
     from a common command syntax and a consistent user interface.
     The DECmcc command syntax is compliant with Digital's Network
     Control Language (NCL), the command-line syntax used for network
     management commands. Other classes of entities may be managed
     through additional access modules enrolled in the DECmcc BMS
     software.

     With proper planning, deployment and use, DECmcc management
     systems are scalable to the size of the network, ranging from
     a small, homogeneous local area network to an enterprise-wide,
     multivendor, distributed environment. DECmcc software supports,
     either or both, centralized or distributed management styles.

     The DECmcc BMS is a single-license product consisting of EMA-
     compliant DECmcc Executive and Management Modules. The following
     is a list of DECmcc software components and modules that com-
     prise DECmcc BMS.

     EXECUTIVE

     The DECmcc EXECUTIVE provides the environment in which DECmcc
     software management modules operate, allowing them to communi-
     cate with each other and with management information stored in
     the MIR. The DECmcc EXECUTIVE consists of the management ker-
     nel, the Management Information Repository (MIR), and Executive
     function modules.

     Among the features of the EXECUTIVE is that, in conjunction
     with appropriate access modules, it provides the ability to
     monitor managed entities. This can be done by polling or through
     a combination of polling and acting as collection point for
     unsolicited entity event messages.

     Management Kernel



                                     2

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     The management kernel provides the operating environment and
     dispatching services for "access" and "function" modules. The
     operating environment consists of a multi-threaded processing
     system contained within VMS processes, along with a set of
     callable procedures.

     Management Information Repository (MIR)

     The MIR is an integrated repository that contains definitions
     of entity classes, entity instances, entity attributes, entity
     events and private or miscellaneous data required by individual
     management modules. The MIR provides storage and access routines
     for maintaining management information within the DECmcc soft-
     ware. Most data stored in the MIR is structured according to the
     EMA Entity Model which is consistent with the ISO/OSI structure
     of Management Information (SMI).























                                     3

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     EXECUTIVE Function Modules

     Control FM

     The Control FM makes access to primitive directives for ob-
     servation and control of entities. The Control FM supports
     a pre-defined list of basic directives, plus a small set of
     generic directives that can be used for different purposes by
     different AMs.

     Registration FM

     The Registration FM, in conjunction with the VAX Distributed
     Name Server (VAXDNS), manages data identifying each entity in a
     network. It also defines and manages a set of common reference
     attributes for all entities. The Registration FM uses VAX Dis-
     tributed Name Service as the DECmcc instance repository. This
     allows multiple DECmcc systems to share the same view of entity
     configurations.

     Additional Functional Modules

     Domain FM

     The Domain FM works in conjunction with the Registration FM to
     enable users to define spheres of management interest. Domains
     may contain other domains as well as reference other domains.
     Users can set up hierarchical domains and navigate through the
     managed network from a top-down view. Domains can be represented
     on the Iconic Map PM, enabling users to select of specific
     domains and manage the entities that comprise them.

     Historian FM

     The Historian FM enables users to collect and timestamp en-
     tity attribute data. The resulting historical attribute data is
     available for use by other management modules such as the Per-
     formance Analyzer FM. Users can define the data to be collected
     as well as the collection intervals.

     Export FM

                                     4

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     The Export FM writes attribute data (historical as well as
     current) to an RDB database located anywhere in the network.
     Exported data can be used to generate reports or other adminis-
     trative applications that require access to a network manage-
     ment data. Included with the Export FM is a set of DATATRIEVE
     procedures which enable users to generate reports on managed
     entities.

     Performance Analyzer FM

     The Performance Analyzer FM calculates statistics for selected
     DECnet (Phase IV and V) and Bridge entities. These statistics
     can be used in conjunction with the Alarms FM to set thresh-
     olds for triggering alarms as well as for network planning and
     optimization purposes.

     Alarms FM

     The Alarms FM provides the ability to notify network managers
     that alarm conditions have been detected in the network. The
     DECmcc Alarms FM can detect alarm conditions about any entity
     that has an appropriate access module. When an alarm condi-
     tion is detected, a user-written command procedure is queued
     for execution. The DECmcc Alarms FM includes sample rules for
     alarm conditions and sample command procedures that can be used
     directly, e.g., to log, broadcast and mail alarms, or used as
     examples that can be modified.

     Access Modules

     DECnet Phase IV AM

     The DECnet Phase IV AM allows users to manage DECnet Phase IV
     entities such as nodes, circuits, lines, and objects. The DECnet
     Phase IV AM provides an access path to and information about
     the entities it supports. The DECnet Phase IV AM supports one
     global entity class, NODE4, and a number of child entity classes
     such as lines and circuits. With the DECnet Phase IV AM, typical
     management operations might include gathering counters from a

                                     5

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     child's entity (e.g., line) through its parent (e.g., a DECnet
     Phase IV Node), or modifying parameters on a remote node.

     Ethernet Station AM

     The Ethernet Station AM provides looptest and display of generic
     Ethernet devices that support: MOP REQID, MOP SYSID, MOP Coun-
     ters, Ethernet V2 LOOPBACK, IEEE802.3 XID, or IEEE802.3 TEST.
     The Ethernet Station AM also provides Ethernet control and mon-
     itoring functions that can be used by other management modules
     within the DECmcc system.

     Bridge AM

     The Bridge AM enables users to control and monitor any Digital
     LAN Bridge 100, 150 or 200 in an extended LAN environment. In
     addition, this module provides an executable procedure to aid in
     the populating of the DECmcc software database with information
     contained in an existing Remote Bridge Management Software
     (RBMS) database.

     Sample AM

     A Sample Access Module is included as part of the DECmcc BMS.
     The Sample AM implements a single management directive, the SHOW
     directive, for the DECnet Phase IV node entity and associated
     line subentity. The SHOW directive displays various Characteris-
     tic, Status and Counter attributes for each entity. The Sample
     Access Module implements a SHOW and TEST management directive to
     manage the Access Module itself to illustrate the "management of
     management" concept. Including the Sample AM with the DECmcc BMS
     is intended to ensure proper end-user licensing of access mod-
     ules developed using source code provided in the DECmcc Toolkit
     (SPD 32.49.xx).

     Presentation Modules



                                     6

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     Presentation modules included with DECmcc BMS are the Iconic Map
     and the Forms and Command Line (FCL) PMs. The FCL PM supports
     two modes of operation, Command Line Mode and Forms Interface
     Mode.

     Iconic Map PM

     The Iconic Map presentation module enables users to interface
     with the DECmcc BMS using a mouse control. Commands as well as
     management data can be accessed by selecting icons representing
     managed domains and entities in a map window and through pull-
     down command windows.

     FCL PM - Command-Line Mode

     FCL Command-Line Mode is a terminal-based user interface that
     uses command-line input and output techniques. It is compliant
     with Digital's NCL, the command-line syntax used for network
     management commands.

     Command-Line Mode is available from any terminal or workstation
     compatible with Digital's VT220 terminal. It supports command-
     line recall and editing, abbreviation support, on-line HELP,
     symbol substitution, support of control key sequences, line
     continuation, and typeahead.

     The user interface structure also allows a VMS DCL process to be
     "spawned."

     FCL PM - Forms Interface Mode

     The Forms Interface Mode is an extension of the command-line
     interface that provides a screen-based user interface, using
     forms and list input and output techniques. It is available
     from any terminal or workstation compatible with Digital's VT220
     terminal.



                                     7

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     The screen format contains two regions. One region is for enter-
     ing data to input fields for issuing DECmcc commands or "direc-
     tives." The other region is for viewing data or output resulting
     from DECmcc directives. Arrow keys, Previous and Next Screen
     keys may be used for reviewing the data in the output region.

     Utilities

     Several utilities are included that enable on-site enrollment of
     access modules not provided with the DECmcc BMS. Documentation
     required for such module enrollment is supplied by the module
     developer. The utilities are:

     o  Dictionary Administrator Program (DAP) Utility

     o  Parse Table Builder (PTB) Utility

     o  Test Bed Driver (TBD) Utility

     o  Help File Builder (HFB) Utility

     The DECmcc Developer's Toolkit Reference manual (order number
     AA-PD5MA-TE) describes each of the tools in detail.

     On-Line HELP Information

     DECmcc includes extensive online information similar to VMS
     HELP. HELP information is provided in the following four cate-
     gories: Entity information, Function information, Presentation
     information, and Tutorial information.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configurations as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.48.01-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

     VMS Operating System

     Layered Products:

                                     8

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Distributed Name Service (VAX DNS) - Server must be in-
     stalled somewhere in network.

     For Workstations Running DECwindows:

     VMS Operating System (and necessary components of DECwindows)

     Layered Products:

     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Distributed Name Service (VAX DNS) - Server must be in-
     stalled somewhere in the network.

     o  Please refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.48.01-x)
        for required versions of prerequisite/optional software.























                                     9

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software Licenses: QL-YSUA9-AA
     Software Media: QA-YSUAA-H5
     Software Documentation: QA-YSUAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-YSUA*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity (LMF).

     License units for this product are allocated on a flat price
     basis, regardless of User/Activity or processor type.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

                                    10

 


     DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.1         SPD 32.48.01



     Other Network Management Services are also available. These
     include, but are not restricted to, the following:

     o  Network Management Operations Services

     o  Network Management Planning and Design Services

     o  Network Management Implementation Services

     o  Network Management Training

     For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Of-
     fice.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver,
           VMS, DECwindows, DECmcc and DECnet are trademarks of
           Digital Equipment Corporation.
















                                    11
