 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),   SPD
     31.88.02
                    Version 2.1

     DESCRIPTION

     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (DECmcc EMS) is a network
     management software product designed to provide network man-
     agers with a complete set of applications to manage wide area
     heterogeneous networks.

     The DECmcc Enterprise Management Station consolidates Digital
     Equipment Corporation's network management applications within
     a DECwindows environment and provides the capability of running
     all applications on a single system. It consists of products
     that are compliant with Digital's Enterprise Management Archi-
     tecture (EMA) as well as products that are not EMA-compliant.
     As such, DECmcc EMS is a transition vehicle to an EMA-compliant
     product set within a single software product.

     DECmcc EMS consists of the following Digital network management
     products:

     o  DECmcc Basic Management System (BMS)

     o  NMCC/DECnet Monitor

     o  LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM) VMS

     o  Extended LAN Management Software (DECelms)

     o  NMCC/VAX ETHERnim

     o  Terminal Server Manager (TSM)

     Three component products: DECelms, TSM and DECmcc BMS have been
     upgraded within DECmcc EMS V2.1.

                                  DIGITAL                    May 1991

                                                          AE-PAW9C-TE

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     In addition to containing the products listed above, DECmcc EMS
     supports the ability to install and run other VMS layered prod-
     ucts within a DECwindows environment. DECmcc EMS also provides
     access to non-Digital management products that are based on X11
     standards. These products can be installed on the same or sepa-
     rate processors as DECmcc EMS for the purpose of consolidating
     interfaces on a single workstation display.

     Also included with the DECmcc EMS components is the Net-
     work Troubleshooting Guide. Available through the DECwindows
     Bookreader application, the Network Troubleshooting Guide pro-
     vides DECmcc EMS users with a systematic, on-line approach to
     solving some of the most common problems that occur on DECnet-
     VAX, DECnet-ULTRIX, Ethernet, and TCP/IP networks.

     DECmcc Basic Management System

     The DECmcc Basic Management System (BMS) software implements
     Digital's Enterprise Management Architecture (EMA) director
     model, consistent with the ISO/OSI management framework. The
     DECmcc Basic Management System (BMS) software, allows users to
     control, monitor, and test manageable objects (entities) in a
     network.

     The EMA Director Model defines a management platform, called
     a director, and cooperating but independent software compo-
     nents named "management modules." DECmcc BMS is comprised of a
     director and management modules of the following types:

     o  Access Modules (AMs) provide access to and information about
        different classes of entities.

     o  Function Modules (FMs) provide high-level management func-
        tions for managed entities.

     o  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user inter-
        face for Function modules.


                                     2

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     The core of the DECmcc BMS software is the EXECUTIVE, which con-
     sists of a management kernel and a set of "function modules."
     The EXECUTIVE also includes a Management Information Repository
     (MIR), which defines a consistent structure for viewing manage-
     ment data. Together they form DECmcc's operating environment for
     co-existence and interoperation of management modules.

     The DECmcc BMS software allows a user to observe and control a
     selected group of DECnet-VAX Phase IV entities and many other
     entities from a common command syntax and a consistent user
     interface. The DECmcc command syntax is compliant with Digital's
     Network Control Language (NCL), the command-line syntax used for
     network DECnet management commands. Other classes of entities
     may be managed through additional access modules enrolled in the
     DECmcc BMS software.

     With proper planning, deployment and use, DECmcc management
     systems are scalable to the size of the network, ranging from
     a small, homogeneous local area network to an enterprise-wide,
     multi-vendor, distributed environment. DECmcc software supports,
     either or both, centralized or distributed management styles.

     The following is a list of the EMA-compliant components and
     modules that comprise DECmcc BMS.

     EXECUTIVE

     The EXECUTIVE provides the environment where DECmcc BMS man-
     agement modules operate, allowing them to communicate with each
     other and with management information stored in the MIR. The
     DECmcc EXECUTIVE consists of the management kernel, Management
     Information Repository (MIR), and EXECUTIVE function modules.

     Among the features of the EXECUTIVE is its ability, in con-
     junction with appropriate access modules, to monitor managed
     entities. This can be done by polling or through a combina-
     tion of polling and acting as collection points for unsolicited
     entity event messages.

     Management Kernel

                                     3

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     The Management Kernel provides the operating environment and
     dispatching services for management modules. The operating
     environment consists of a multi-threaded processing system,
     contained within VMS processes, along with a set of callable
     procedures.

     Management Information Repository (MIR)

     The MIR is an integrated repository that contains definitions of
     entity classes, entity instances, entity attributes, and pri-
     vate or miscellaneous data required by individual management
     modules. The MIR provides storage and access routines for main-
     taining management information within the DECmcc BMS software.
     Most data stored in the MIR is structured according to the EMA
     Entity Model, which is consistent with the ISO/OSI structure of
     Management Information (SMI).

     EXECUTIVE Function Modules

     Control FM

     The Control FM provides access to primitive directives for ob-
     servation and control of managed entities. The Control FM sup-
     ports a pre-defined list of basic directives, plus a small set
     of generic directives that can be used for different purposes by
     different AMs.

     Registration FM

     The Registration FM, in conjunction with the VAX Distributed
     Name Server (VAX DNS) manages data identifying each entity in a
     network. It also defines and manages a set of common reference
     attributes for all entities. The Registration FM uses VAX Dis-
     tributed Name Service as the DECmcc instance repository. This
     allows multiple DECmcc BMS systems to share the same view of
     entity configurations.

     Additional Function Modules

     Domain FM

                                     4

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     The Domain FM works in conjunction with the Registration FM to
     enable users to define spheres of management interest. Domains
     may contain other domains as well as reference other domains.
     Users can set up hierarchical domains and navigate through the
     managed network from a top-down view. Domains can be represented
     on the Iconic Map PM, enabling users to select specific domains
     and manage the entities that comprise them.

     Historian FM

     The Historian FM enables users to collect and timestamp en-
     tity attribute data. The resulting historical attribute data is
     available for use by other management modules such as the Per-
     formance Analyzer FM. Users can define the data to be collected
     as well as the collection intervals.

     Export FM

     The Export FM writes attribute data (historical as well as cur-
     rent) to an Rdb/VMS database located anywhere in the network.
     Exported data can be used to generate reports or other admin-
     istrative applications that require access to network manage-
     ment data. Included with the Export FM is a set of DATATRIEVE
     procedures which enable users to generate reports on managed
     entities.

     Performance Analyzer FM

     The Performance Analyzer FM calculates statistics for selected
     DECnet (Phase IV and V) and Bridge entities. These statistics
     can be used in conjunction with the Alarms FM to set thresh-
     olds for triggering alarms as well as for network planning and
     optimization purposes.

     Alarms FM

     The Alarms FM provides the ability to notify network managers
     that alarm conditions have been detected in the network. The
     Alarms FM can detect alarm conditions about any entity that
     has an appropriate access module. When an alarm condition is

                                     5

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     detected, a user-written command procedure is queued for execu-
     tion. The Alarms FM includes sample rules for alarm conditions
     and sample command procedures that can be used directly (e.g.,
     to log, broadcast and mail alarms) or used as examples that can
     be modified.

     Access Modules

     DECnet Phase IV AM

     The DECnet Phase IV AM allows users to manage DECnet Phase IV
     entities such as nodes, circuits, lines, and objects. The DECnet
     Phase IV AM provides an access path to and information about
     the entities it supports. The DECnet Phase IV AM supports one
     global entity class, NODE4, and a number of child entity classes
     such as lines and circuits. With the DECnet Phase IV AM, typical
     management operations include gathering counters from a child
     entity (e.g., line) through its parent (e.g., a DECnet Phase IV
     Node), or modifying parameters on a remote node.

     Ethernet Station AM

     The Ethernet Station AM provides looptest and display of generic
     Ethernet devices that support: MOP REQID, MOP SYSID, MOP Coun-
     ters, Ethernet V2 Loopback IEEE802.3 XID, or IEEE802.3 TEST.
     The Ethernet Station AM also provides Ethernet control and mon-
     itoring functions that can be used by other management modules
     within the DECmcc BMS system.

     Bridge AM

     The Bridge AM enables users to control and monitor any Digital
     LANbridge 100, 150 or 200 in an extended LAN environment. In
     addition, this module provides an executable procedure to aid
     in the populating of the DECmcc BMS software database with
     information contained in an existing Remote Bridge Management
     Software (RBMS) database.

     Sample AM

                                     6

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     A Sample Access Module is included as part of the DECmcc BMS
     software. The Sample AM implements a single management direc-
     tive, the SHOW directive, for the DECnet Phase IV node entity
     and associated line subentity. The SHOW directive displays var-
     ious Characteristic, Status, and Counter attributes for each
     entity. The Sample Access Module implements a SHOW and TEST
     management directive to manage the Access Module itself to il-
     lustrate the "management of management" concept. Including the
     Sample AM with the DECmcc BMS is intended to ensure proper end-
     user licensing of access modules developed using source code
     provided in the DECmcc Toolkit (SPD 32.49.xx).

     Presentation Modules

     Presentation Modules included with DECmcc BMS software are the
     Iconic Map and the Forms and Command Line (FCL) PMs. The FCL
     PM supports two modes of operation, Command Line Mode and Forms
     Interface Mode.

     Iconic Map PM

     The Iconic Map presentation module enables users to interact
     with the DECmcc BMS using a mouse control. Commands as well as
     management data can be accessed by selecting icons representing
     managed domains and entities in a map window, and through pull-
     down command windows.

     FCL PM - Command-Line Mode

     The Command-Line Mode is a terminal-based user interface that
     uses command-line input and output techniques. It is compliant
     with Digital's NCL, the command-line syntax used for DECnet/OSI
     network management commands.

     Command-Line Mode is available from any terminal or workstation
     compatible with Digital's VT220 terminal. It supports command-
     line recall and editing, abbreviation support, on-line HELP,
     symbol substitution, support of control key sequences, line
     continuation, and typeahead.

                                     7

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     The user interface structure also allows a VMS DCL process to be
     "spawned."

     FCL PM - Forms Interface Mode

     The Forms Interface Mode is an extension of the command-line
     interface that provides a screen-based user interface, using
     forms and list input and output techniques. It is available
     from any terminal or workstation compatible with Digital's VT220
     terminal.

     The screen format contains two regions. One region is for en-
     tering data to input fields for issuing DECmcc BMS commands or
     "directives." The other region is for viewing data resulting
     from DECmcc BMS directives. Arrow keys, Previous and Next Screen
     keys may be used for reviewing the data in the output region.

     Utilities

     Several utilities are included that enable the on-site enroll-
     ment of access modules not provided with the DECmcc BMS. Docu-
     mentation required for such enrollment is provided by the module
     developer. The utilities are:

     o  Dictionary Administrator Program (DAP) Utility

     o  Parse Table Builder (PTB) Utility

     o  Test Bed Driver (TBD) Utility

     o  Help File Builder (HFB) Utility

     The DECmcc Developer's Toolkit Reference Manual (order number
     AA-PD5MA-TE) describes each of the tools in detail.

     On-Line HELP Information

     DECmcc BMS includes extensive on-line HELP information similar
     to VMS HELP. HELP information is provided in the following
     four categories: Entity information, Function information,
     Presentation information, and Tutorial information.

                                     8

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     NMCC/DECnet Monitor

     NMCC/DECnet Monitor is a network monitoring application for
     Phase IV/IV+ DECnet network nodes. It runs as a layered ap-
     plication on VMS Systems and does not require any additional
     hardware or software on the remote DECnet nodes to be monitored.
     NMCC/DECnet Monitor collects and monitors data concerning the
     DECnet network. NMCC/DECnet Monitor enables the user to store,
     distribute, analyze, and evaluate the data to create useful and
     comprehensible information, and to present the data either as a
     screen display or as a printed report.

     NMCC/DECnet Monitor consists of software modules, the Kernel and
     User Interface, which combine to form a comprehensive monitoring
     system. The central component of NMCC/DECnet Monitor is the
     Kernel, a data acquisition process, which collects data from
     the network using polling and/or event logging. Polling can
     be used to obtain status, characteristics, and traffic/error
     counters. Event logging can be set up to cause remote nodes to
     log events automatically to the kernel, including status changes
     and traffic/error counters as they occur.

     The network manager has full control over which nodes are
     polled, the polling rates, and which remote nodes log events.
     The Kernel processes the raw data and creates a log file of
     statistical data, which is then available to the NMCC/DECnet
     Reports subsystem for the production of network reports.

     Through access to the log files, users can gather the following
     reports: network summary, system, and line error reports; net-
     work summary, system, and line traffic reports; configuration
     reports.

     The User Interface subsystem provides an easy-to-use command in-
     terface to the NMCC/DECnet Monitor. It provides on-line graphic
     and lexical video displays of selected error statistics, traffic
     statistics, and status information. The displays are designed
     hierarchically so that the user can select the network compo-
     nents, information types, and levels of detail in a consistent

                                     9

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     and easy to use manner. The graphic displays include histograms,
     linear scales, and a network map.

     The User Interface subsystem also provides the user with the
     capability to build and manipulate various databases maintained
     by NMCC/DECnet Monitor, including a network component reference
     database. This contains a description of all nodes and physical
     links in the network. It includes such details as CPU type,
     type and version of operating system, name and telephone number
     of system manager, and name and telephone number of customer
     service contacts. Display commands are provided to retrieve this
     information. The user interface to these commands is consistent
     with the operational interface of the product.

     LAN Traffic Monitor VMS

     LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM) VMS is the software portion of a fully
     distributed monitor that can support the capture and presen-
     tation of traffic data from an extended Ethernet. A LAN Bridge
     100 or LAN Bridge 150, downline loaded with monitoring software,
     is attached to the Ethernet cable and transmits information to
     a VMS layered application software program located on any VAX
     in the extended LAN. Multiple users, from different nodes on
     the extended Ethernet, may access the traffic data. LAN Traffic
     Monitor also works with Chipcom[R]'s Broadband Bridges called
     Ethermodem III Bridges.

     LAN Bridge hardware can run either as a LAN Traffic Monitor
     or as a LAN Bridge, i.e., the primary building block of the
     Extended LAN (Local Area Network) architecture. An Extended LAN
     is a collection of LANs that are interconnected and logically
     appear as one large Local Area Network.

     Note that when a bridge is used as a monitoring device or lis-
     tener, it does not function as a bridge. Users can remotely
     switch a bridge between monitoring and standard bridge modes
     using Digital's DECelms (Extended LAN Management Software).


                                    10

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     With the LAN Bridge designed to work at full Ethernet speed,
     the LAN Traffic Monitor can provide real-time data on Ethernet
     LAN throughput and utilization, allowing a customer to actively
     monitor their Ethernet usage. The ability to collect data on any
     protocol type (i.e., LAT, 802.3, DECnet, TCP/IP, etc.) on the
     Ethernet is also provided.

     LAN Traffic Monitor contains the LTM Listener software (which
     counts and classifies Ethernet traffic using a LAN Bridge as a
     monitoring device) and the LTM User Interface (which collects
     and displays data received from the LTM Listener).

     The LTM Listener periodically reports traffic statistics to
     the LTM User Interface located on a VAX host. The LTM User
     Interface receives unsolicited Ethernet datagrams generated
     by the LTM Listener, and through the menu structure, the user
     can also ask the LTM Listener for additional data not found
     in the unsolicited messages. A single LTM host can be used in
     conjunction with multiple LTM listeners.

     The LTM User Interface performs the necessary data reduction and
     presents the statistics in logical groupings. Summary displays,
     which are presented in tabular format, include Network Traf-
     fic, Top Ten Talkers, and Throughput and Utilization. LTM also
     displays Lists of Nodes, Multicast Addresses, Protocols Used
     by Nodes, Node Traffic by Protocol Type, Multicast Traffic by
     Protocol Type, and Protocol Type Traffic.

     In addition, LAN utilization based on the most recent traffic
     data received from the LTM Listener may be displayed graphically
     in intervals of one, four, eight, twelve, twenty-four, or forty-
     eight hours.

     DECelms

     DECelms (Extended Local area network Management Software) en-
     ables users to configure, manage, monitor, control, and observe
     any LAN Bridge and FDDI Wiring Concentrator in an extended Eth-
     ernet/802.3 LAN and FDDI network environment. Supported devices
     include Digital's LAN Bridge 100, LAN Bridge 150, LAN Bridge

                                    11

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     200, DECbridge 500, DECconcentrator 500, METROwave, and Chip-
     com's Ethermodem Broadband Bridge. DECelms is comprised of VAX
     host software and corresponding firmware that resides in the LAN
     Bridges and FDDI DECconcentrators.

     A superset of RBMS V2.0 functions, DECelms provides remote
     management capabilities for FDDI and Ethernet devices. Using
     DECelms, users can:

     o  Observe, monitor, and control interoperable FDDI and Ethernet
        networks

     o  Display and modify devices, lines, physical ports, and for-
        warding database characteristics

     o  Enable and disable lines and physical ports

     o  Automatically build a host registry of all reachable FDDI
        DECconcentrators and LAN Bridges within extended LAN and FDDI
        environments

     o  Automatically or manually poll the devices stored in the host
        registry for faults, errors, and changed information

     o  Display error conditions to an alarms window and record
        detailed information in an error log file

     o  Process the logfile keying off time or type of faults

     o  Use standard VMS utilities like print, type, search, etc., on
        the ASCII formatted versions of the DECelms error log file

     o  Display data-link counters, status and characteristics

     o  Modify parameters such as operational state, forwarding
        database, and spanning tree characteristics

     o  Remotely invoke a device's self-test capabilities

     o  Associate ASCII names with specific device physical addresses
        for ease of use in management commands

     o  Display the logical FDDI network topology through ring map-
        ping

                                    12

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     DECelms also provides simultaneous access by more than one
     user, supports command line recall, and password protection
     for settable parameters for Digital LAN Bridge 150s, 200s, 500s,
     and FDDI DECconcentrators.

     NMCC/VAX ETHERnim

     NMCC/VAX ETHERnim is a network management application that
     provides the network manager with a tool to gather information
     about Ethernet nodes, verify reachability of nodes, provide a
     graphical display of local area network topology and monitor
     Ethernet traffic.

     NMCC/VAX ETHERnim consists of two categories of software, one
     must be installed on a VMS system set up as the Host, and the
     other can be optionally installed on Target systems running
     VMS. In this context, the Host is defined as the node where the
     NMCC/VAX ETHERnim application runs, while the Target systems
     are those DECnet nodes on the Ethernet segments which are being
     tested at the User (task) level. The optional software installed
     on the Target system is referred to as the Remote Files.

     The Host software requires Phase IV DECnet software on a VMS
     system. When this software has been installed, the network
     manager has the ability to:

     o  Build a permanent database containing basic information
        about each node directly connected to the Ethernet local
        area network through user commands and automatic procedures.

     o  Manually construct and maintain a topological view of the
        network, including transparent network devices (e.g., DEMPR,
        DELNI, DEREP).

     o  Test the Ethernet network to help isolate and identify prob-
        lems.

     o  Test the communications path to each node up to the DNA ap-
        plication layer by performing a loopback test to a specified
        user account. This feature is available only for VMS Target
        systems.

                                    13

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     o  Monitor the network to determine which nodes are the top
        talkers and which nodes are the top listeners; sort/display
        traffic by protocol type or multi-cast address; focus on
        traffic to/from a specified node.

     o  Perform information access to properly configured DECnet
        nodes on the Ethernet to determine the remote nodes's system
        type, hardware configuration, and software configuration.

     Note: Under high Ethernet utilization (above 20%) the ETHERnim
     Monitor function may cause performance problems on the host
     running ETHERnim. This may affect time-sensitive network appli-
     cations which are connected to the host running ETHERnim.

     Terminal Server Manager

     Terminal Server Manager (TSM) VMS software allows suitably
     privileged users at a VAX host to control and observe termi-
     nal servers anywhere in the extended local area network. TSM
     provides centralization and increased flexibility in configur-
     ing, monitoring, and controlling Digital's family of terminal
     servers.

     Among the features supported by TSM are:

     o  Support for the DECserver 300 V2.0 products which include
        Telnet functionality. A set of server commands provide man-
        agement of the Telnet characteristics of a terminal server.

     o  User prompts that reflect the current context of the user's
        TSM session, whether it be DIRECTORY, SERVER, PARTITION, TYPE
        or TABLE.

     o  Support for the 3270 Option Software for the CXM04 line card.
        This line card provides capability of connectivity of 3270-
        class-terminals to systems on Ethernet.

     o  Keyboard mapping, which enables the terminal server manager
        to customize 3270 keyboard tables supplied with the 3270
        Option Software by changing the way individual 3270 keyboard
        keys are mapped to Digital's VT220 keys.

                                    14

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     o  Wildcarding, which extends the wildcarding capability for
        server names by allowing a wildcard character such as * and %
        to replace a server name any place it appears in the syntax.

     o  A management directory that contains the name, Ethernet
        address, terminal server type, and other fields for each
        server to be managed. Through the TSM directory, the user
        need only to refer to the name of the server in order to gain
        access.

     o  The ability to define logical groups of servers. A command
        can then be executed for all servers in the partition. TSM
        provides a pre-defined partition called ALL that includes all
        servers in the directory.

     o  Access to and manipulation of the database associated with
        each server within its jurisdiction, including their charac-
        teristics and parameters.

     o  Management of the volatile characteristics for all terminal
        server types.

     o  Management of permanent NVRAM characteristics for the DEC-
        server 100, DECserver 200, and MUXserver 100. For the Eth-
        ernet Terminal Server and DECserver 500, TSM modifies the
        permanent attributes contained within the image files which
        are down-line loaded.

     o  Automated updates of the DECnet database for servers to match
        the DECnet related information in the management directory.
        Users need no longer employ a separate DSVCONFIG or TSVNCP
        configuration program.

     o  TSM server and directory commands may be issued as DCL com-
        mands; the syntax follows DCL conventions.

     o  A USE command to allow selection of the server or servers
        to be managed, or the directory to be referenced. A single
        server, a user specified group of servers (a partition),
        or all servers known via the management directory can be
        selected with the USE command.

                                    15

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     o  Maintenance of command files outside of TSM (e.g., by use
        of a VMS editor). This command file support allows values
        of characteristics to be stored on the host, effectively
        creating a copy of the permanent database that may be used to
        configure new servers. Server maintenance is also enhanced by
        allowing the terminal server to be easily box swapped, and
        parameters reset. Up to eight parameters may be passed to TSM
        command files. Additionally, command files may operate on a
        single server, on a logical group (a partition) of servers or
        on all servers.

     o  Trouble shooting within the terminal server network through
        the ability to centrally read traffic status and counters
        in addition to error status and counters. With the PASTHRU
        command, the user can also connect directly to the server
        without using TSM, allowing isolation of problems between TSM
        and the server.

     Network Troubleshooting Guide

     The Network Troubleshooting Guide provides an on-line, system-
     atic approach to solving any network problem. Available through
     the DECwindows Bookreader application, its text can be displayed
     in a window within a DECmcc Management Station environment. The
     Network Troubleshooting Guide gives specific step-by-step in-
     structions for solving some of the most common network problems
     that occur on DECnet-VAX, DECnet-ULTRIX, Ethernet, and TCP/IP
     networks.

     The Network Troubleshooting Guide incorporates information from
     various sources into a single manual, minimizing the documenta-
     tion required for solving network problems.

     The Network Troubleshooting Guide covers:

     o  Background information on DECnet and TCP/IP networks

     o  How to use a standard troubleshooting methodology to solve
        any network problem

                                    16

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     o  How to use network tools such as DECmcc Management Station
        for ULTRIX, Network Control Program (NCP), NMCC/DECnet Moni-
        tor, NMCC/VAX Ethernim, and LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM)

     o  How to use ULTRIX commands such as netstat, ping, and uerf

     o  How to use log files and counters to gather information for
        problem solving

     o  How to trace a network path to isolate the source of a prob-
        lem

     o  How and when to perform loopback tests

     o  In explicit step-by-step instructions, how to solve nearly 30
        of the most common network problems, including:

        o  Network partner exited (DECnet networks)

        o  Permission denied (TCP/IP networks)

        o  LAT Print Queue Problems (Ethernet networks)

     INSTALLATION

     Only experienced customers should attempt the installation
     of this product. Digital recommends that all other customers
     purchase Digital's installation and consulting services. These
     services provide for the planning, implementation (product
     setup and startup) and customer orientation on the product by
     an experienced Digital Software Specialist. Customers should
     consult their local Digital offices to obtain information on
     installation and start-up services available in their locations.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.88.02-x).

     LANbridge 100/150 for LTM Listener

                                    17

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

     For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

     VMS Operating System
     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Rdb/VMS (Run-Time Option)
     DEC GKS for VMS (Run-Time Option)
     VAX Distributed Name Service (server must be installed somewhere
     in network)

     For Workstations Running DECwindows:

     VMS Operating System (and necessary components of DECwindows)
     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Rdb/VMS (Run-Time Option)
     DEC GKS for VMS (Run-Time Option)
     VAX Distributed Name Service (server must be installed somewhere
     in network)

     *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.88.02-x) for
        availability and prerequisite/optional software and for
        information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software License: QL-YFVA9-AA
     Software Media: QA-YFVAA-H*
     Software Documentation: QA-YFVAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-YFVA*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.





                                    18

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity (LMF).

     License units for this product are allocated on a flat-price
     basis, regardless of User/Activity or processor type.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

     Other Network Management Services are also available. These
     include, but are not restricted to, the following:

     o  Network Management Operations Services

     o  Network Management Planning and Design Services

     o  Network Management Implementation Services

     o  Network Management Training

     For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Of-
     fice.

                                    19

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.02
     Version 2.1


     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]   Chipcom is a registered trademark of the Chipcom Corpora-
           tion.

     [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, CI, CDD/Plus, DATATRIEVE, DECgraph,
           DECmcc, DECnet, DECwindows, DELNI, DEMPR, VAX, VMS, LAT,
           MicroVAX, Rdb/VMS, VAXstation, VAXserver, VAXcluster,
           VT, VT220, VT330, and VT340 are trademarks of Digital
           Equipment Corporation.

























                                    20
