 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.4  SPD 27.46.05

 DESCRIPTION

 The VAXcluster Console System (VCS) is a software product which en-
 ables system managers or operators to perform console functions on any
 device that meets certain technical specifications. VCS allows a sys-
 tem manager or an operator to manage up to 32 devices that send ASCII
 data over a RS232C line, has an EIA console port, supports XON/XOFF
 and I/O buffering. Examples of such devices that have been managed in
 the past are:

 o  VAXcluster systems

 o  Standalone VAX systems

 o  PDP-11s

 o  Line printer servers or controllers

 o  LAN bridges and other third-party devices

 The VAXcluster Console System (VCS) is a VMS V5.4 DECwindows layered
 software product which provides a central point for system console ser-
 vices and for logging console data received from the serviced nodes.
 From a single terminal or VAXstation display connected to the VCS host
 system, a system manager can perform all console functions for all ser-
 viced nodes. These functions include, but are not limited to:

 o  Shutting down or rebooting the serviced nodes

 o  Running standalone diagnostics

 o  Performing standalone backup operations

 o  Installing layered products

                               DIGITAL                      May 1992

                                                         AE-HV29E-TE

 

 o  Viewing console output

 o  Reviewing historical console data

 o  Retrieving historical console data for analysis or printing

 o  Searching for console data

 VCS also performs the following functions:

 o  Logs all data and activities between VCS and the serviced nodes

 o  Scans incoming messages from the serviced nodes for specific text
    strings that may contain status or error information

 o  Notifies system managers of critical system messages via DECtalk,
    VAXmail, or by changing icon colors

 o  Enables users to assemble icons (not drawn to scale) into graph-
    ics displays on a VAXstation screen representing the aerial view
    of the data center and the logical grouping of the VAXcluster con-
    figurations

 o  Provides an optional security facility to control access to the ser-
    viced nodes

 VCS can be accessed from locally connected terminals or remotely over
 the Ethernet.

 The VAXcluster Console System software can be installed on any VAX,
 MicroVAX or VAXstation platform identified in the System Software Ad-
 dendum (SSA 27.46.05-x) The devices managed by VCS are connected to
 the VCS platform by:

 o  Direct connection, that is, connecting to a port of a serial line
    interface device (DHV11, DHQ11, DZQ11, or CXY08) within the VCS host
    system cabinet

 o  Host-initiated LAT connection, that is, connecting to a port of a
    terminal server which is accessible by the VCS host system over the
    Ethernet. The DECserver port must be mapped to an LTA terminal de-
    vice defined in the VCS host system.

                                  2

 

 o  Via a user supplied pseudo terminal program. The program interfaces
    to VCS via an FTA pseudo terminal device. The user supplied pro-
    gram must format the data stream from foreign device into a char-
    acter stream suitable for use by VCS.

 Software Components

 The VCS V1.4 software includes the following components:

 I/O Data Logger - Manages the console lines and logs all data received
 on these lines. In addition, it makes the received data available to
 other VCS components and transmits the data on the console lines to
 nodes designated by those components.

 Data Scanner - Scans the console log data for predefined events. The
 information about detected events is relayed to other VCS components
 for logging and additional processing.

 Event Logger - Records events detected by the Data Scanner. It logs
 all events from all currently configured systems to a disk log file.

 Central Control Coordinator Interface - A DECwindows interface that
 provides an aerial view of a data center. From this interface, sys-
 tem managers can monitor all console activities and respond to events
 detected on the console connections. Console events are reflected by
 the node icons in the display and direct the system manager to sys-
 tems needing attention. Other interactive interfaces can also be ac-
 tivated from the Central Control Coordinator Interface.

 Monitor Interface - Enables system managers to monitor the serviced
 nodes. It monitors these systems by displaying multiple windows of in-
 formation. System managers can connect the primary window to a sin-
 gle system or display log data in this window while monitoring other
 nodes.

 Connect Interface - Enables system managers to connect to a serviced
 node, making their terminal the dedicated console (more than one sys-
 tem manager can connect to the same node). Once connected, all keystrokes,
 except for the defined "break" and "escape" characters, are transmit-
 ted directly to the console line of the node to which VCS is connected.

                                  3

 

 While connected to that node, the system manager has normal console
 behavior. The only exception to normal behavior is that one control
 character is reserved to enable the operator to escape back to the VCS
 system from which the connection was made.

 Record Interface - Enables operators to capture console line activ-
 ity on a hardcopy device.

 Review Interface - Enables system managers to retrieve console data
 and event information from the console and event log files. The re-
 trieved information and data can be specified in terms of source node
 and time interval.

 Access Interface - A programming interface that provides an alternate
 method for capturing events for additional processing. User-written
 applications can be used with the Access Interface. In addition, VCS
 provides a default application, complete with source codes, which sends
 scan and console events to a specified output device.

 Even Notification System - A suite of Access Interface applications
 for interfacing with a wide range of communication media for VCS event
 notification.

 Configuration Editor - Helps operators create and maintain the con-
 figuration information that VCS requires.

 Configuration File - Contains information about the nodes being ser-
 viced by VCS and the VCS environment itself. The Configuration Edi-
 tor is provided to aid in the creation and modification of this data.

 Log Files - VCS maintains the console and event log files as the per-
 manent historical records of console data from the serviced nodes. VCS
 creates a new set of console and event log files every 24 hours, be-
 ginning at midnight.

 When additional space is needed on the disk device, VCS displays a warn-
 ing message before disk space shortage is critical. Then, as additional
 space is required, VCS deletes the oldest log files to make room for
 the new ones. The system manager can back up the log files before VCS
 deletes them.

                                  4

 

 Console Emulation Package - This is a new capability of V1.4. It em-
 ulates the full capabilities of VCS by simulating the operation of a
 system under VCS control. This is done by playing back a previously
 recorded production log file.

 This emulation package is useful for:

 -  Training new personnel on a stand-alone workstation

 -  Providing a means to test out development changes, that is, new scan
    profiles, action routines, etc

 -  Helping diagnose problems by replaying production log files, thus,
    recreating a past sequence of events

 The Console Emulation Package cannot be run concurrently with a VCS
 production environment on the same host platform.

 It is recommended that the VAXcluster Console System not be a member
 of a CI VAXcluster system or a satellite member of a Local Area or Mixed
 Interconnect VAXcluster system. However, the VAXcluster Console Sys-
 tem can serve as the boot member of a Local Area VAXcluster System.

 Features

 o  Support of up to 32 devices; either VAXcluster system nodes, stand-
    alone VAXsystems or any device that sends ASCII data over an RS232
    line, has an EIA console port and supports XON/XOFF and I/O buffer-
    ing. The maximum supported console terminal speed is 19.2K baud.

 o  All data received from connected devices are logged by VCS and iden-
    tified by source node name and the time received by VCS.

 o  Operators can connect to the console port of any node serviced by
    VCS from any terminal connected to the VCS host.

 o  VCS can control remote devices via host-initiated connections over
    Ethernet using terminal servers.

 o  Operators can remotely access the VCS host system via DECnet, LAT
    or dial-up ports to perform VCS functions.

                                  5

 

 o  A security facility is provided to allow the system manager to re-
    strict access to VCS-controlled devices.

 o  VCS detects console events by scanning console text messages and
    comparing them with predefined text strings contained in the con-
    figuration file.

 o  With VAXstation host systems, VCS provides the ability to build an
    icon-based view of all devices connected to it. This graphics lay-
    out uses color to indicate the severity of an event. It also al-
    lows the user to easily access a device's console by clicking with
    a mouse to activate a VCS interface.

 o  Users are alerted of critical system messages by changing icon col-
    ors via a DECtalk device or through VAXmail.

 o  Users can train new personnel, diagnose problems or try out new scan
    profiles utilizing the Console Emulation Package

 o  Users can connect to consoles of devices not using an RS-232-C con-
    nectivity by utilizing the Pseudoterminal (FTA) support. An FTA em-
    ulates a terminal or LAT line connection to VCS enabling an appli-
    cation to connect to foreign devices.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 27.46.05-x).

 Cables and adapters as specified in the System Support Addendum.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For VAX hosts:

 VMS Operating System

 For VAXstation hosts:

 VMS Operating System

                                  6

 

 VMS DECwindows (included with VMS Operating System)

 VMS DECwindows Motif[R] (using VCS XUI based applications)

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.46.05-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of Prerequisite/Optional Software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-V01A*-**
 Software Media: QA-V01A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-V01A*-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-V01A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The VCS license is user-based. The user is defined as a node or de-
 vice managed by VCS. One license allows the VCS system to have one de-
 vice (serviced node) connected to it. Additional licenses may be pur-
 chased in increments of one to accommodate an expanding data center.

 If VCS is run exclusively with the Console Emulation Package provid-
 ing console data in place of actual managed nodes, up to the full 32
 node emulation can be configured using a single VCS concurrent use li-
 cense.

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.







                                  7

 

 LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

 License Management Facility Support (LMF)

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on a Concurrent Use ba-
 sis.

 This layered product offers a Concurrent Use license. Each Concurrent
 Use license allows one real console line to be logged, scanned and ac-
 cessed by the VCS product. A single Concurrent Use license allows the
 VCS product to log and scan up to 32 eumlated console lines when all
 of the configured console lines are emulated using the VCS Console Em-
 ulation Package.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 

 [R]  Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.


                                  8

 


 [TM]The Digital Logo, VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation, DECnet,
    DECwindows, DECserver, DECtalk, PDP-11, LAT, VAXft, DECconnect,
    VAXmail, VAXcluster, MicroVAX and VAXserver are trademarks of
    Digital Equipment Corporation.



































                                  9
