 

 DESCRIPTION

 The PATHWORKS family of PC integration products implements Digital Equip-
 ment Corporation's Personal Computing Systems Architecture (PCSA). PCSA
 is an extension of Digital's systems and networking architecture that
 merges the VAX, PC, and Macintosh environments.

 PCSA provides a framework for integrating personal computers into the
 organization's total information system so different types of users
 can share information, system resources, and network services across
 the entire organization.

 The PATHWORKS family of software products includes:

 o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh - Macintosh software that allows Macintosh
    clients to access file, print, mail, and database services on VMS
    or, in some cases, RISC/ULTRIX systems. This software also includes
    applications for terminal emulation, X display services, mail, database
    access, and DECnet. PATHWORKS for Macintosh is described in this
    SPD.

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) - Software that allows a VMS system
    to act as a file, print, mail, and database server to Macintosh clients.
    This software is required for Macintosh client access to these VAX-
    based services (refer to SPD 35.09.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS - Software that allows a VMS system to act as a
    file, print, and disk server to MS-DOS[R] and OS/2[R] personal com-
    puters (refer to SPD 30.50.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for OS/2 - Required software for the personal computer
    running the OS/2 operating system to use the facilities provided
    by PATHWORKS for VMS and/or make the file and print facilities for
    an OS/2 system available to other personal computers (refer to SPD
    55.24.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS - Required software for the personal computer run-
    ning MS-DOS to use the facilities provided by PATHWORKS for VMS or
    PATHWORKS for OS/2 server software (refer to SPD 55.07.xx).

                               DIGITAL                September 1993

                                                         AE-PCAEF-TE

 

 o  PATHWORKS for ULTRIX - Software that allows an ULTRIX system to act
    as a file, print, and mail server to DOS and OS/2 personal comput-
    ers (refer to SPD 32.44.xx).

 o  PATHWORKS for SCO UNIX - Software that allows a SCO UNIX-based In-
    tel[TM] 386/486 system to act as a file and print server to DOS and
    OS/2 personal computers. PATHWORKS for SCO UNIX is based upon Mi-
    crosoft LAN Manager for UNIX (LMU) V2.2. PATHWORKS for SCO UNIX sup-
    ports Ethernet as the physical media type and DECnet, TCP/IP, and
    NetBEUI as network transports (refer to SPD 42.85.xx).

 All required software for the Macintosh computer is contained in this
 media kit. Using PATHWORKS for Macintosh, Macintosh users can share
 applications, data, printers, and resources, access information from
 remote systems on the network, and apply that information in Macin-
 tosh applications.

 Features

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh provides the following features and capabil-
 ities:

 o  Mail for Macintosh

 o  Data Access Language client for System 6.0.x users

 o  MacX X Window System server

 o  MacTerminal[R] (V3.1) terminal emulator

 o  AppleTalk[R]-Local Area Terminal (LAT) Gateway

 o  DECnet for Macintosh

 o  PATHWORKS Listener

 o  Macintosh Communications Toolbox, including the LAT tool, the ADSP
    tool, the AppleTalk-DECnet tool, the AppleTalk-LAT tool, the DEC-
    net tool, the CTERM tool, the MacTCP[R] tool, the direct serial con-
    nection tool, the text transfer tool, the Xmodem file transfer tool,
    and the modem connection tool.

                                  2

 

 Client Software

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh provides the Macintosh user with the follow-
 ing Macintosh client software:

 o  Virtual Terminal Services - PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Ap-
    ple[R] Computer's MacTerminal emulator (V3.1), which uses the Mac-
    intosh Communications Toolbox to provide the emulation and connec-
    tivity functionality. MacTerminal provides VT320-style terminal em-
    ulation to a host computer on a DECnet network through the use of
    the VT320 tool in the Macintosh Communications Toolbox.





























                                  3

 

 MacTerminal, which supports multiple sessions, also allows high-speed
 terminal emulation over Ethernet in a local area network through the
 use of the LAT tool, which implements Digital's LAT technology. For
 DECnet users needing terminal services over LocalTalk[R] or wide area
 terminal services over Ethernet, MacTerminal supports the CTERM tool.
 For LocalTalk users needing terminal services, MacTerminal supports
 the AppleTalk-LAT tool.

    Other features of MacTerminal include scrollback cache, and cut,
    copy, and paste capabilities between terminal sessions or Macin-
    tosh applications. MacTerminal also supports 132 column displays.

 o  X Window System Server - PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Apple Com-
    puter's MacX, which is a Macintosh application that implements an
    X Window System server using the industry-standard X Window Sys-
    tem, Version 11.4 (X11) protocol. A DECwindows application execut-
    ing on a remote VMS system with DECnet or AppleTalk, or on a re-
    mote ULTRIX system with DECnet or TCP/IP, may be displayed on and
    receive keyboard and mouse input from the Macintosh computer.

    A minimum of 1.5 MB of system memory must be free and accessible
    to MacX after configuring the system. Depending on the number of
    DECwindows applications being displayed, the memory requirements
    of each application, and whether or not color is being used, more
    memory may be required on the Macintosh computer. Therefore, the
    user should test these types of configurations prior to production
    use. MacX is not supported on 68000-based Macintosh computers, like
    the Macintosh SE or the Macintosh Classic[R].

    MacX supports eight-bit color X client applications and supplies
    a variety of fonts, including the special DECwindows fonts. Users
    can choose to run MacX as a full-screen DECwindows window or as part
    of the standard Macintosh desktop environment.

 o  Electronic Mail - PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Mail for Mac-
    intosh, an electronic mail application for the Macintosh computer
    that uses VMSmail. The Mail for Macintosh client is used in con-
    junction with the PCSA mail server that is part of PATHWORKS for
    VMS (Macintosh). Clients can send and receive electronic mail mes-
    sages with other VMSmail-supported users in the network. Mail for

                                  4

 

    Macintosh does not support connections to the ULTRIX-based PCSA mail
    server.

    Mail for Macintosh has a standard Macintosh user interface that al-
    lows the user to select multiple messages for operations on groups
    of messages, and to cut and paste with other applications. Users
    can create and send memos, as well as read, reply, forward, print,
    copy, mark, and delete memos. Messages can be organized into fold-
    ers and can be sent using VMS distribution lists. Mail for Macin-
    tosh includes a built-in editor for creating memos, or the user can
    choose to send an ASCII file created with another editor. Users can
    also select preferences for functions such as copy on send, copy
    of reply, copy on forward, and include text on reply.

    Mail for Macintosh supports sending binary files. Users can send
    any Macintosh file by using the Send Disk File command in the Mail
    Menu. Files can be sent as MacBinary data to another Macintosh, or
    as plain binary data for interchange with other types of comput-
    ers.





















                                  5

 

 Network Connectivity

 DECnet for Macintosh allows a Macintosh to participate as a DECnet Phase
 IV end node. This component of PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes the
 following facilities:

 o  Task-to-task communications

 o  File transfer through the NetCopy utility

 o  Network Management through the Network Control Program (NCP) util-
    ity

 o  File access listener

 DECnet for Macintosh also supports asynchronous DDCMP communications
 over a serial line. Refer to the Communications section of this SPD.

 Task-to-task Communications

 Using PATHWORKS for Macintosh, a Macintosh user program can exchange
 messages with other network user programs via DECnet. The remote end
 user program can be a Phase III node in the same area or on any other
 Phase IV node in the network. The messages sent and received by the
 two user programs can be in any data format as long as the two part-
 ner programs agree on the message formats.

 Task-to-task program capabilities are accessed through the standard
 Macintosh Communications Toolbox subroutine calls.

 File Transfer

 Using the NetCopy utility, the user can transfer sequential ASCII and
 binary files between the Macintosh computer and another DECnet node.
 Files can be transferred in both directions between the locally sup-
 ported Macintosh file system and the file systems of other DECnet nodes.
 Wild cards can be used in source file specifications for both local
 and remote nodes, subject to support on the remote system.


                                  6

 

 ASCII text files transferred to the Macintosh system are stored as stan-
 dard text files. Such files are converted into the remote system's nor-
 mal format when transferred from the Macintosh node. When transfer-
 ring binary files to the Macintosh computer, file data is preserved
 but any record attribute data is lost. Record attributes can be re-
 stored on such transfers from the Macintosh computer to a record file
 system through use of option settings.

 Additional features of the utility allow deletion (DELETE), remote spool-
 ing (PRINT), and display of files (TYPE), as well as batch submission
 (SUBMIT) and/or execution of command files, provided the remote node
 supports these functions. Directory (DIRECTORY) listings are also sup-
 ported.



























                                  7

 

 File Access Listener

 The file access listener (FAL) server task provides full access to Mac-
 intosh file resources from remote systems. User ID and password pro-
 tection can be used to control access to local files. FAL receives re-
 mote file access requests from the network and translates them into
 calls to the Macintosh file system. FAL then sends or receives the re-
 sulting file data back to the accessing program.

 Network Management

 The NCP and the DECnet Control Panel interface together perform four
 primary functions:

 o  Displaying statistical and error information

 o  Configuring the Macintosh computer as a DECnet node

 o  Controlling the node's network components

 o  Testing local network components

 The user can display the status of the local node's DECnet activity
 and statistics related to both the node and the communications line.
 Network parameters such as timer values and buffer sizes can be mod-
 ified.

 Control functions include starting and stopping the line and links,
 deactivating the local node, and controlling access to files from re-
 mote nodes (for file security). In order to test hardware components,
 loop test messages can be sent and received over the network between
 the Macintosh computer and another node.

 Because the Network Management Listener is included, remote DECnet nodes
 can access certain dynamic DECnet parameters. This facilitates man-
 agement of DECnet networks containing Macintoshes.

 Macintosh Communications Toolbox


                                  8

 

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes Apple Computer's Macintosh Communi-
 cations Toolbox, which is system software that provides Macintosh ap-
 plications with standard access to communications services, data con-
 nections, terminal emulations, and file transfers. The Macintosh Com-
 munications Toolbox tools that ship with PATHWORKS for Macintosh in-
 clude the AppleTalk Data Stream Protocol tool for AppleTalk connec-
 tions, the DECnet tool for DECnet connections, the AppleTalk-DECnet
 tool for connections through the AppleTalk-DECnet gateway, the AppleTalk-
 LAT tool for connections through the AppleTalk-LAT gateway, a serial
 tool for asynchronous connections, the LAT tool for high-speed Eth-
 ernet terminal connections to a host in a local area network, the CTERM
 tool for wide area terminal emulation, the VT320 and VT102 tools for
 terminal emulation, the MacTCP tool for MacX TCP/IP connections, the
 TTY tool, and the Apple modem tool.


























                                  9

 

 AppleTalk-LAT Gateway

 The AppleTalk-LAT gateway allows Macintosh users on an AppleTalk In-
 ternet to connect to LAT terminal services provided by a VAX computer
 on Ethernet. Macintosh clients connected to LocalTalk or connected to
 Ethernet but separated by AppleTalk routers from the host use the AppleTalk-
 LAT gateway to establish connections. This Macintosh software gate-
 way can run concurrently with other applications, but Digital recom-
 mends that users dedicate a Macintosh computer to this gateway for op-
 timal performance.

 Database Access

 The DAL client for use with Macintosh System 6.0.x is included with
 PATHWORKS for Macintosh. The DAL is a database connectivity language
 based on the structured query language. The DAL client, used in con-
 junction with the DAL server and the Rdb/VMS adapter, which are part
 of PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh), provides access to Rdb/VMS databases.
 This allows Macintosh applications that support DAL to access infor-
 mation stored in a remote Rdb database. The Rdb/VMS software is avail-
 able as a separate product and must be installed on a VAX computer to
 be used with the Rdb adapter. Refer to SPD 25.59.xx for more infor-
 mation about VAX Rdb/VMS software.

 The DAL client is not supported for access to an ULTRIX server. The
 DAL client for use with Macintosh System 7.x is available from Apple
 Computer.

 Installation and Configuration

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh, Version 1.2 software is installed from the
 distribution diskettes to a file server volume on the VMS or ULTRIX
 server. The user then mounts the PATHWORKS volume and performs a typ-
 ical Macintosh software installation using the Installer program.

 Optionally, the client software may also be installed directly to a
 local Macintosh hard disk.



                                 10

 

 Digital recommends that the customer's first purchase of this soft-
 ware product include the PATHWORKS for Macintosh DECstart (QS-YPCAL-
 4R). This is an implementation and orientation service that provides
 support for first-time customers of the PATHWORKS for Macintosh prod-
 uct. The service assists in the installation of the PATHWORKS for Mac-
 intosh software, the integration of Macintosh workstations into the
 Digital network, and the setup of the user's environment.

 Communications

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh supports direct connections to baseband Eth-
 ernet local area networks via Ethernet controllers. These interfaces,
 when used in conjunction with Digital's baseband Ethernet components,
 allow PATHWORKS for Macintosh software to use Ethernet as its datalink
 transmission medium.

 Broadband connections are not supported.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh also supports LocalTalk connections to Eth-
 ernet local area networks via LocalTalk to Ethernet routers. Refer to
 the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.53.03-x) for a list of supported
 routers.


















                                 11

 

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh also supports TokenTalk[R] connections to a
 token ring network.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh software is a DECnet Phase IV network prod-
 uct and is warranted for use only with supported Phase IV products sup-
 plied by Digital. DECnet Phase IV networks can contain a maximum of
 1,023 nodes per network area, and up to 63 areas per network. Phase
 III nodes participating in Phase III/IV networks are limited to the
 Phase III routing capability of 255 nodes. Phase II nodes are not sup-
 ported.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh supports the Digital Data Communications Mes-
 sage Protocol, Version 4.1 (DDCMP) for full-duplex transmission in point-
 to-point operation. An asynchronous connection to the network is ac-
 complished over a serial line, using the Macintosh asynchronous com-
 munications port as the physical link. The adjacent system must be a
 DECnet Phase IV, full-function (routing) node, supporting asynchronous
 DDCMP. DDCMP provides error detection/correction and physical link man-
 agement facilities. Neither half-duplex mode nor multi-point tribu-
 tary operation is supported. Because DECnet for Macintosh is nonrout-
 ing, only a single DECnet circuit can be selected at a time (either
 Ethernet, LocalTalk, or asynchronous).

 Restrictions and Limitations

 Because PATHWORKS for Macintosh uses AppleTalk Phase 2 protocols, ser-
 vices provided by a server will only be accessible to Macintosh com-
 puters that are connected to Phase 2 networks. Phase 1 networks can
 co-exist with Phase 2 provided there is a suitably placed Phase 1 to
 Phase 2 transition router somewhere in the network. Use of Phase 1 pro-
 tocols anywhere in the network is not recommended due to the increased
 network load.

 The LAT tool is not supported in LocalTalk networks. The CTERM tool
 with a router that routes DECnet, or the AppleTalk/LAT tool with the
 AppleTalk/LAT gateway should be used.

 A Macintosh with a LocalTalk-connected printer must function as an Ap-
 pleTalk router to print to the printer and access the Ethernet net-
 work.

                                 12

 

 The MacTCP tool is supported only with MacX. This tool should not be
 used with other applications, especially MacTerminal. Use of an un-
 configured MacTCP tool with MacTerminal can cause the Macintosh to crash.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh includes an "unsupported" diskette with the
 distribution media, which contains unsupported utilities. These util-
 ities, which include Disinfectant, mBin, Backup-Mac.COM, and other util-
 ities, are provided for the user's convenience and are not supported
 by PATHWORKS for Macintosh.

 DECnet for Macintosh does not support Apple's Network Software Installer,
 Version 1.3 on Macintosh computers with a built-in Ethernet controller.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in SSA 31.53.04-
 x.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh has been tested on a number of supported con-
 figurations (refer to SSA 31.53.03-x). If a customer problem with PATH-
 WORKS for Macintosh is reproduced by the customer on one of these sup-
 ported configurations, Digital will work the problem to resolution on
 these supported configurations. If the customer problem cannot be re-
 produced by the customer on one of these supported configurations, it
 is the responsibility of the customer to resolve the issue.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Macintosh Operating System

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software requires the PATHWORKS for VMS
 (Macintosh) server software for access to file, print, mail, and database
 services on the VAX computer. Refer to PATHWORKS for VMS (SPD 35.09.xx)
 for more details on this product.

 PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software requires the Pacer for ULTRIX
 server software for access to file and print services of a RISC UL-
 TRIX computer.


                                 13

 

 Refer to SSA 31.53.04-x for availability and required versions of pre-
 requisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 o  Client Software License: QL-YPH9W-AA (one required per Macintosh
    client)

 o  Media and Documentation: QA-YPHAA-HC (minimum of one required; in-
    cludes one set of user documentation and one set of client admin-
    istration documentation)

 o  User and Client Administration Documentation: QA-YPHAA-GZ (optional)

 o  User Documentation: QA-YPHAC-GZ (optional)

 o  Programmer Documentation: QA-YPCAC-GZ (optional)

 o  Software Product Services:
       PATHWORKS Layered Product Support: QT-GZPA9-**
       Media and Documentation Distribution Service: QT-YPHAA-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.
















                                 14

 

 Documentation

 Client administration documentation includes the MacTCP Administra-
 tor's Guide, and the Client Administrator's Guide.

 User documentation includes the Network Services Guide, MacX User's
 Guide, and Mail for Macintosh User's Guide.

 Programmer documentation includes the Programmer's Guide, Programmer's
 Reference, Data Access Language Programmer's Reference, DECnet for Mac-
 intosh Programmer's Reference, Programmer's Update, and DAL Program-
 mer's Reference Update.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The PATHWORKS for Macintosh license gives the user the right to use
 the client software on a single Macintosh CPU and to use the PATHWORKS
 for VMS (Macintosh) server software on one or more VAX systems, or the
 Pacer for ULTRIX server software on one or more RISC ULTRIX systems.

 A license must be obtained in advance for each Macintosh system on which
 the PATHWORKS for Macintosh client software is installed or from which
 the PATHWORKS for VMS (Macintosh) or Pacer for ULTRIX services are ac-
 cessed.

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation on Digital's licensing terms and policies, please contact
 your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, please contact your local Digital office.






                                 15

 

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software is provided by Digital with the purchase
 of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Ad-
 dendum of this SPD.

 [R] MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [R] OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
    chines Corporation.

 [R] Apple, AppleTalk, Classic, LocalTalk, Macintosh, MacTCP, and
    MacTerminal are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

 [R] UNIX is a registered trademark of American Telephone & Tele-
    graph Co.

 [TM]Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, DEC, DECnet, DECstart, DECwindows, Digital,
    LAT, PATHWORKS, Rdb/VMS, ULTRIX, VAX, VMS, VT, and VT320 are
    trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

 ©1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
















                                 16
