 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver Network Access Software,      SPD 46.13.02
                Version 1.3

 DESCRIPTION

 DECserver Network Access Software, Version 1.3 is the software release
 for the DECserver 700 equipped with 2 MB or more of memory, DECserver
 900TM equipped with 4 MB of memory, and for the DECserver 90TL and DEC-
 server 90M equipped with 4 MB of memory. Throughout this document the
 term "DECservers" will be used to refer to the DECserver 700-8, DEC-
 server 700-16, DECserver 900TM, DECserver 90TL, and the DECserver 90M
 hardware platforms onto which the DECserver Network Access Software
 may be loaded. Those features that are restricted to, or limited by,
 a specific DECserver hardware platform are noted.

 The DECservers are communications servers for Ethernet local area net-
 works (LANs). They provide a convenient method to logically connect
 asynchronous terminals and personal computers to one or more service
 nodes (hosts) on an Ethernet. Once the terminal or PC is connected,
 a user can use application programs and utilities as though the de-
 vice is directly connected to a host. Thus, it may be possible to use
 the DECserver to connect all terminals to service nodes in place of
 traditional interfaces.

 The DECserver Network Access Software provides concurrent Local Area
 Terminal (LAT) and Telnet TCP/IP protocol support from a DECserver com-
 munications server to enable connectivity to host systems that use LAT
 or TCP/IP protocols. The TCP/IP protocol suite is used to connect to
 UNIX[R] host systems and other host systems that support the TCP/IP
 protocol suite.



                               DIGITAL                  October 1993

                                                         AE-PW62C-TE

 

 The DECserver also allows for host-initiated connections to serial print-
 ers. A serial printer can be shared between LAT print requests and Tel-
 net requests. Telnet requests cannot be queued on the server. A print
 symbiont on service nodes can initiate connections to serial print-
 ers connected to DECserver ports. This allows the printers to be dis-
 tributed throughout a facility and accessed transparently by service
 node users. Incoming host-initiated connect requests may be queued FIFO
 at the server.

 The DECserver Network Access Software provides connectivity to IP net-
 works via SLIP (Serial Line Internet Protocol), CSLIP (Compressed SLIP),
 and via PPP (Point-to-Point Protocol). As many IP systems as there are
 serial ports on the DECserver may be connected. These systems can run
 IP applications (such as Telnet, FTP[R], X Window System[TM], and so
 on) on the serial line and communicate with other IP services on the
 network. The DECserver software also routes IP datagrams between asyn-
 chronous SLIP or PPP ports.

 The DECserver software supports end-node routing for attached AppleTalk
 [R] hosts. The DECserver software acquires and assigns AppleTalk ad-
 dresses for attached hosts via AARP and PPP. The DECserver uses the
 AARP protocol to acquire a new address for a connecting host, and it
 uses the PPP ATCP protocol to assign this address to the host. The DEC-
 server keeps a cache of already acquired addresses to optimize the con-
 nection process. The system administrator can configure the address
 cache size. A list of supported Macintosh[R] products can be found in
 the System Support Addendum (SSA 46.13.02-x).

 Provision for user authentication is included in the DECserver Net-
 work Access Software, using Kerberos Version 4. Kerberos is an authen-
 tication service for open network systems, developed as part of Project
 Athena at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

 The DECserver has an SNMP (Simple Network Management) agent which al-
 lows it to be managed by an SNMP network management system. Informa-
 tion can be retrieved (GET) and modified (SET) from the server.




                                  2

 

 The DECserver provides TN3270 terminal emulation which permits the users
 of a Digital ASCII video terminal or PC in terminal emulation mode,
 within an Internet network, to interactively access IBM[R] host-based
 applications developed for IBM 3270 display stations.

 The DECserver user interface provides the means to create customized
 menus and user-defined commands. User-defined commands are new com-
 mands created by grouping existing server commands.

 The DECserver supports reverse LAT and Telnet Listener. Both facil-
 ities are provided to enable a network node, such as a host system,
 to connect to a DECserver port. This facility could be used to sup-
 port printers, a modem pool for outgoing calls, and connection to the
 asynchronous ports of a system without other network access of other
 types of devices that have an asynchronous interface. Reverse LAT and
 Telnet Listener also provide the ability to group physical ports into
 logical groupings. For example, ports connected to the asynchronous
 interfaces of the same system could be grouped so a connect request
 would be routed to any of the currently unused ports. A logical group-
 ing can contain any number of ports from one to all the ports on the
 server. Port-to-port connections on the same server are also supported.

 The DECserver implements the LAT protocol for communications with ser-
 vice nodes that implement this protocol on the same Ethernet. This in-
 terface has been optimized for high terminal I/O performance over an
 Ethernet while reducing host CPU cycles required to handle interrupts.
 Under most I/O loading conditions, a significant performance gain may
 be realized by using the DECserver versus direct terminal connections
 via traditional asynchronous backplane communications interfaces.

 The DECserver also implements the TCP/IP protocol suite for communi-
 cations with host systems that implement TCP/IP. The TCP/IP protocols
 are based on the University of California's 4.3 Berkeley Software Dis-
 tribution (BSD).

 The following TCP/IP protocols are supported and adhere to the Inter-
 net Request for Comments (RFCs):

 o  BOOTP (RFC 951 and RFC 1084) and TFTP (RFC 783) together provide
    a method for downloading the DECserver from any host that supports

                                  3

 

    those protocols. BOOTP provides a mechanism by which the server can
    identify a host from which it can request a download. TFTP provides
    the data transfer facility used to copy to software from the load
    host to the server.

 o  Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) (RFC 793) is the Internet-standard,
    transport-level protocol that provides the reliable, end-to-end full
    duplex stream service that supports many application protocols.

 o  User Datagram Protocol (UDP) (RFC 768) is an Internet protocol that
    provides datagram service to application programs, allowing an ap-
    plication program on one machine to send a datagram to an appli-
    cation program on another machine. UDP is necessary for the Domain
    Name System and Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).

 o  Internet Protocol (IP) (RFC 791) is an Internet-standard protocol
    that defines the Internet datagram as the unit of information that
    is passed across the Internet, and provides the universal address-
    ing scheme for hosts and gateways for Internet connectionless, best-
    effort packet delivery services. IP includes ICMP as an integral
    part.

 o  Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) (RFC 792) is an Internet
    network protocol that specifies error and control messages used with
    the Internet protocols.

    -  Packet Internet Groper (PING) tests the reachability of nodes
       on the users' Internet. ICMP echoes requests are sent and replies
       processed.

 o  Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) (RFC 826) is an Internet proto-
    col used to perform dynamic address resolution to dynamically map
    or translate an Internet address into the correct physical hard-
    ware address.

 o  Telnet (RFC 854) is the standard Internet application-level pro-
    tocol for remote terminal connection service. Telnet is a virtual
    terminal facility that allows a user at one site to establish a TCP
    connection to a remote system. Telnet makes the local terminal ap-
    pear as a direct extension of the remote system, allowing the user

                                  4

 

    to conduct a session and run application programs as if the user's
    terminal was directly connected to the remote system.

    Both Telnet client and server capabilities are provided:

    -  3270 Terminal Emulation allows the users of a Digital ASCII video
       terminal or PC in terminal emulation mode (VT100, VT200, VT300,
       VT400 mode) within an Internet network to interactively access
       IBM host-based applications developed for IBM 3270 display sta-
       tions.

    -  Telnet client provides the ability to connect to any remote TCP
       port at an Internet address on a LAN or a wide area network (WAN).
       Telnet client allows the user to specify a remote computer by
       Internet address as well as by Domain name.

    -  Telnet server allows hosts to connect to devices (like print-
       ers, host systems, and other serial devices) connected to the
       DECserver ports.

    -  Telnet character and binary profiles features are available to
       facilitate using Telnet sessions in interactive or file-transfer
       modes. Telnet options supported include: status (RFC 859), end
       of record (RFC 885), remote flow control (RFC 1080), echo (RFC
       857), timing mark (RFC 860), binary (RFC 856), suppress go ahead
       (RFC 858) and send location (RFC 779).

    -  TN3270 server-wide keymapping is a feature which allows the net-
       work manager to make up to six customized terminal types and as-
       sociated keymappings available on the server and an individual
       port can access any one of these key- mappings without using up
       additional NVRAM. The port user chooses one of the terminal types
       with the SET PORT TN3270 TERMINAL command.

    -  Telnet Remote Console allows a user to establish a remote Tel-
       net connection to the management port on the terminal server and
       manage the server as if locally attached. The Telnet Listener
       23 can now be assigned to any terminal server port as well as
       the remote console. Any Telnet Listener (23, 2001-2016) can be
       assigned to be the remote console.

                                  5

 

 o  Internet Domain Name System (DNS) Support - The Domain Name Sys-
    tem provides the translation from system name to Internet address.
    The DECserver will interface to user programs and send queries to
    Domain name servers for translating Domain names to Internet ad-
    dresses, and Internet addresses to Domain names (RFCs 1034, 1035).

 o  Subnet Addressing (RFC 950).

 o  Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) - The SNMP agent allows
    the DECserver to be managed by an SNMP network management system.
    Retrieving information from the terminal server is possible using
    the SNMP GET and GET-NEXT requests. The SNMP SET operation is fully
    supported, providing the ability to modify DECserver parameters as
    well as create and delete applicable table entries. The terminal
    server can send unsolicited event alarms to specified SNMP manage-
    ment stations via the SNMP TRAP message. Terminal server variables
    accessible via SNMP (RFC 1157), not a MIB, are defined by the In-
    ternet documents: MIB II (RFC 1213), RS232-like MIB (RFC 1317), the
    Character MIB (RFC 1316). Also supported are the AppleTalk MIB (RFC
    1243) and the Ethernet-like MIB (RFC 1284).

 o  Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP) - A host computer that sup-
    ports SLIP can use the DECserver serial port as its network con-
    nection. This gives IP hosts, which have no direct Ethernet con-
    nection, access to the network and to IP hosts attached to other
    DECserver serial ports. Any IP application can then be run over the
    SLIP link (RFC 1055).

 o  Compressed Serial Line Internet Protocol (CSLIP) (RFC 1144) - CSLIP
    employs Van Jacobson header compression to increase the performance
    on serial line connections.

 o  Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) (RFC 1331, RFC 1332, RFC 1334, RFC
    1378) - A host computer that supports PPP can use the DECserver se-
    rial port as its network connection. PPP provides error recovery
    and is a reliable datalink protocol.

    -  Link Control Protocol (LCP) (RFC 1331) - The following LCP op-
       tions are settable: Maximum Receive Unit - specifies the max-
       imum sized datagram a side would like to receive over the link;
       Async Character Control Map - specifies which characters require

                                  6

 

       byte stuffing; Password Authentication Protocol (PAP) (RFC 1334)
       - provides dial-in security via a PAP packet; Protocol Field Com-
       pression - compresses the HDLC Protocol Field from two bytes to
       one; Address and Control Field Compression - compresses the HDLC
       Address and Control Fields causing them to be omitted from the
       frame.

    -  Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP) (RFC 1332) - The fol-
       lowing IPCP options are settable: IP Addresses - Negotiates IP
       addresses for both ends of the link, used if the attached de-
       vice does not support "IP Address" negotiation; IP Compression
       Protocol - supports Van Jacobson's TCP/IP Header Compression (RFC
       1144); IP Address - Negotiates IP address for each end of the
       link.

    -  AppleTalk Control Protocol (ATCP) (RFC 1378) - The following ATCP
       options are fixed: AppleTalk Address - negotiates AppleTalk ad-
       dress for each end of the link; Routing Protocol - negotiates
       which routing protocols may be used over the link. Only RTMP and
       NONE are supported; Suppress Broadcast - peer may request that
       the server not forward broadcast traffic to the attached host;
       Default Router - allows the server to inform the attached host
       what the address is for the default Router; Zone Information -
       allows the server to inform the attached host what the name is
       for the default zone.

 The DECserver also implements and supports the Terminal Device/Session
 Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple sessions at the de-
 vice level. The DECserver provides the ability to communicate with de-
 vices which also implement this protocol (such as VT420, VT330+, or
 VT340+), and assist in the management of multiple sessions for these
 devices. By implementing this protocol, the DECserver can permit at-
 tached devices to maintain screen and keyboard context for multiple
 LAT and/or Telnet sessions, as well as allow these devices to run mul-
 tiple LAT and/or Telnet sessions concurrently.

 The DECserver software will support block mode transfers of up to 2,048
 bytes.


                                  7

 

 The DECserver implements the ODL (On Demand Loading) font-loading pro-
 tocol, which allows Asian-language terminals that implement the ODL
 protocol to communicate with an OpenVMS host via a terminal server.
 The Asian-language terminals will be able to request font definitions
 from an OpenVMS host when connected to a DECserver. This feature is
 supported only for LAT connections.

 Software that runs on the DECserver is downline loaded over the net-
 work from a load host using MOP or BOOTP/TFTP. Terminal access using
 the DECserver does not require DECnet running in the same service node;
 LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism to transport terminal mes-
 sages. The DECserver software contains provisions to be loaded from
 nonvolatile memory (Flash RAM) incorporated in some of the DECserver
 hardware platforms.

 Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal sessions, au-
 tomatic failover, and remote printer support can lead to greater user
 productivity.

 For WAN communications, terminal users can connect to remote hosts via
 Telnet through a TCP/IP router or gateway. In addition, terminal users
 can connect to a local service node running DECnet, where they can "SET
 HOST" to a remote system via the DECnet network terminal protocol. If
 this system has the requisite X.25 or SNA 3270 access routines, a ter-
 minal user could communicate to a remote SNA or X.25 host through the
 appropriate gateway and this intervening host. A DECserver terminal
 user cannot communicate directly to remote hosts through DECnet Routers
 or X.25/SNA Gateways. WAN traffic will not provide the same high level
 of performance as local terminal connections due to the additional DEC-
 net or Internet protocol overhead. The DECservers support connections
 to WANs via modems.

 Features

 Remote Connectivity





                                  8

 

 PPP, SLIP, and CSLIP provide remote IP connectivity from any host com-
 puter that supports SLIP, CSLIP, or PPP. This means that the host can
 use the DECserver serial port as its network connection. This gives
 IP end nodes, which have no Ethernet controller or that reside at re-
 mote sites, access to the network and to other serial-line attached
 TCP/IP end nodes. Any IP application can then be run over the link.

 AUTOLINK

 Provides a generic asynchronous serial datalink connection (or ses-
 sion) for dial-in ports. This feature allows a server manager to con-
 figure a dial-in port to service both PPP and SLIP users with mini-
 mal user interaction. An AUTOLINK session passably examines charac-
 ters received from the attached devise. If a PPP or SLIP packet is de-
 tected, the current session will attempt to change itself into the cor-
 responding type of datalink session, PPP or SLIP.

 Terminal Connection Management

 Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical con-
 nection, called a session, to any service node that implements the LAT
 or Telnet protocol on the same Ethernet LAN, or to a remote host that
 implements the TCP/IP protocol suite. This connection makes the ter-
 minal appear as if it were physically connected to the service node,
 and the terminal user can use standard system utilities and applica-
 tions supported by that node. Each terminal connected to the server
 can connect to the same or a different service node on the Ethernet.
 Furthermore, several servers can be used to connect many terminals to
 one or more service nodes.

 A service node can have one or more LAT services that are offered to
 DECserver users. Services and nodes are identified by name. Users al-
 ways connect to services, not to nodes; often one of the service names
 will be the node name. Users of Telnet connect to nodes.

 In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver LAT users see each VAXclus-
 ter on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering a com-
 mon service. Each cluster node may also offer a service whose name is


                                  9

 

 equivalent to its node name. In this case, a terminal user can con-
 nect either to the cluster service or a service associated with a par-
 ticular cluster node. To connect via Telnet, a user may need to spec-
 ify the specific cluster node to which to connect.




































                                 10

 

 Load Balancing

 When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the con-
 nection is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process
 the server uses when more than one node offers the same service. Ser-
 vice nodes do not have to be configured in a cluster for load balanc-
 ing to be used. Service nodes with the same names may be running dif-
 ferent operating systems. Using the load balancing process, the server
 connects to the node with the highest rating for the service desired.
 This rating is based on the current loading on the nodes that offer
 the service. This feature is typically supported only for LAT connec-
 tions.

 Multiple Sessions

 The DECserver allows each user to establish and maintain up to eight
 sessions to one or more service nodes. Only one session per user can
 be active at a time. Through simple switching commands, the user can
 access the different sessions without repeating a login dialogue each
 time. Some operating systems may impose limits on the number of LAT
 or Telnet sessions that a host will support.

 Multiple Session Management

 The DECserver software allows direct communications with devices that
 support the TD/SMP protocol. This protocol provides the ability for
 the attached device to maintain screen and keyboard context for the
 multiple LAT or Telnet sessions that the DECserver provides. By im-
 plementing the Multiple Session protocol, the DECserver can now as-
 sist in the management of context of these multiple sessions, as well
 as allow for simultaneous output to multiple LAT or Telnet sessions
 being maintained by the device.

 Outbound Connection Queues

 If a terminal user requests a connection to a service and the requested
 service is currently in use, the terminal server users may opt to have
 the requested connection queued to the remote service. If the user's


                                 11

 

 port has been appropriately configured, this feature happens automat-
 ically whenever a connection fails for this reason. The connection re-
 quest is queued at the service node end and is processed first-in/first-
 out (FIFO) until such time as the user's connection request can be com-
 pleted. This feature assists in the fair management of limited net-
 work resources. Once queued for connection, the user also has the op-
 tion to cancel the queue entry and proceed with other sessions. This
 feature is supported only for LAT connections. Similar functionality
 may be available via a print filter program on a Telnet host.

 Command Line Recall and Editing

 The DECserver server supports multiple command line entry recall and
 editing.


























                                 12

 

 Welcome Identification

 The DECserver server-standard welcome banner, which includes server
 type, version number, and internal base level, is issued whenever a
 user successfully logs in to the server. The server will also print
 a Server-Manager-settable identification string. This can be useful
 for automatic server identification or for small daily messages used
 for communications with the terminal server users.

 Local Mode and Service Mode

 For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver is iden-
 tical to the environment the user would experience if attached directly
 to the service node. When operating in this mode, the user is said to
 be in Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during connection establish-
 ment, the user interacts directly with the DECserver. When operating
 in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

 In Local Mode the terminal input is interpreted directly by the soft-
 ware as commands to be performed by the server.

 Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, non-
 privileged, and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the Server Man-
 ager to control the environment of the server and the terminal users.
 Access to this mode is password protected. Nonprivileged commands al-
 low the terminal user to control their service sessions, set the ter-
 minal characteristics, and show server information. The Server Man-
 ager can set the server to secure mode on a per-terminal basis, which
 further limits the commands users can enter to only those which di-
 rectly relate to the user's own terminal.

 Additional commands and displays to support the features available with
 the TD/SMP protocol are usable in Local Mode. These commands will be
 used to enable or disable server recognition of the TD/SMP commands.

 The Server Manager environment is a logical extension of the user en-
 vironment. The Server Manager is treated as a server user with a priv-
 ileged status. The Server Manager sets a terminal to this status us-
 ing a command which requires a password. This privileged status al-
 lows the Server Manager to enter commands not usually available to server

                                 13

 

 users. These commands set server characteristics, provide control over
 server port usage, and provide the ability to control the user's ac-
 cess to the server and network services.

 In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected
 service node with several exceptions. One exception, called the lo-
 cal switch character, allows the user to enter Local Mode from Ser-
 vice Mode. The [BREAK] key may also be used for this function. Other
 exceptions, called the forward and backward switch characters, allow
 the user to switch between sessions without the need to enter local
 mode. The switch characters are disabled by default but may be enabled
 by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are usually interpreted locally,
 but flow control using these characters can be disabled.



























                                 14

 

 Autoconnection

 Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user ter-
 minal to a service node when connection failures occur or upon user
 login to the server. In conjunction with this function, a dedicated
 or preferred service can be specified for each terminal user. If a ded-
 icated service is specified, the DECserver will attempt to connect to
 that service when a character is typed on the terminal keyboard or when
 an existing connection fails. In dedicated service mode, only one ses-
 sion is available. As this mode is designed to simulate a direct ter-
 minal connection, no local mode commands or messages are available to
 the terminal user. Ports with dedicated service can be automatically
 logged out of the server when the user logs out of the service node.

 If a preferred service is specified, the DECserver will attempt to con-
 nect to that service as with the dedicated service mode of operation.
 However, the terminal user can enter local mode and establish other
 sessions.

 Automatic Protocol Selection

 It is possible to automatically connect to an Internet host or LAT ser-
 vice without explicitly identifying the connection as LAT or Telnet.
 If the port is configured with a value for the default protocol as "ANY",
 the server will attempt a LAT connection first to the name specified
 in the LAT service field. If the service is not available or unknown,
 the terminal server will then automatically attempt a Telnet connec-
 tion to the Internet host specified in the command.

 Automatic Session Failover

 If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a connec-
 tion to a service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user
 to another service node offering the same service. The user does not
 have to be connected to that service node. Furthermore, the user's con-
 text at the time of failure is not automatically restored and login
 to the new service is required. This feature is supported only for LAT
 connections.

 Groups

                                 15

 

 Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one
 or more groups specified by a list of numbers from 0 to 255. Groups
 allow an easy means of subdividing the network into what appears to
 be many smaller networks. A terminal user is only aware of the ser-
 vices that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).

 The Server Manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a ter-
 minal is a member. The authorized groups define the set of services
 that the user is allowed to access. In addition, for those nodes that
 implement group codes, a user can further limit access to services by
 disabling some of the authorized groups using a nonprivileged group
 command. The user-settable group codes are a subset of the authorized
 groups.

 Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view
 is mainly for user convenience. Groups apply only to LAT connections.
























                                 16

 

 Security

 The DECserver provides functions that enhance security features al-
 ready available in the service nodes. DECserver security includes the
 ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from other users, optional lo-
 gin protection, and nonprivileged local mode of operation as a default.

 A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the
 user to leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of secu-
 rity violations. When a terminal is locked, all input from the ter-
 minal is ignored until the lock password is re-entered. The lock fea-
 ture may be disabled by the Server Manager.

 Each terminal port can be set to operate in a secure mode, which causes
 all commands that relate to other users to be disabled for that port.

 Login passwords can be enabled on a per-server basis by the Server Man-
 ager. If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to ac-
 cess server functions.

 DECserver users usually have access to the nonprivileged local mode.
 In this mode, users may only issue commands that affect their own ter-
 minal environment. The server has a privileged mode for Server Man-
 ager's use. The mode is password protected.

 The Server Manager can further restrict non-privileged and secure ports
 by enabling the LIMITED VIEW characteristic, which prohibits users from
 viewing tables of LAT nodes, LAT services, and certain internet databases.
 The Sever Manager can restrict the port user to a predetermined set
 of commands by creating a command menu with these commands in it and
 defining this menu as the default menu on the port. In this case, the
 menu is automatically entered when the user logs into the port and the
 user cannot exit from the menu, except to log out of the port.

 Kerberos Security

 Provision for user authentication is included in the DECserver Net-
 work Access Software, using Kerberos Version 4. Kerberos is an authen-
 tication service for open network systems, developed as part of Project
 Athena at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In addition, users

                                 17

 

 may change their Kerberos passwords, stored on the Kerberos master database,
 remotely from the DECserver.

 User authentication is a security feature that requires a user to en-
 ter a valid username and password pair before being allowed to log in
 to the DECserver. The user must have been previously registered (user-
 name and password) with a Kerberos Key Distribution Center on a host
 running the Kerberos server software. This effectively gives users on
 the network their own password to log in to the network through the
 DECserver by using Kerberos.

 Kerberos uses the Data Encryption Standard to authenticate its mes-
 sages over the network. No Kerberos passwords are transmitted in the
 clear.


























                                 18

 

 Online HELP Facility

 A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP
 command provides information on the correct syntax and details about
 each command. In addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users
 to quickly learn the basics of DECserver operation. Tutorial HELP may
 be entered upon logging into the server. HELP is based on whether the
 user is secure, nonprivileged, or privileged.

 Command Prompting

 The command prompting feature allows users to solicit specific help
 based upon where they are in the command sequence. The user types a
 question mark and is presented a list of next possible commands or key-
 words.

 Command Groups

 The command group feature allows users to define their own command word(s),
 which, when invoked, will execute a sequence of stored server commands.

 Customized Menus

 This feature allows the privileged user to create a customized menu-
 style user interface rather than the command line interface.

 Directory Service

 Any DECserver user can obtain a directory of LAT services available
 to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the user
 is not authorized will not be displayed. Services apply only to LAT
 connections.

 Permanent Characteristics

 The DECserver maintains permanent characteristics in nonvolatile mem-
 ory, which is retained even when the power is disconnected. Permanent
 characteristics are maintained for service and server parameters as
 well as per-port parameters. Permanent characteristics can be reset
 to factory defaults by pressing the software reset button on the hard-
 ware unit while plugging in the power cord.

                                 19

 

 Port Characteristics Configuration

 Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be
 displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively from the user's
 terminal. Many of the characteristics may be set by the user, but cer-
 tain characteristics are privileged and may only be changed by the Server
 Manager.

 Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed, char-
 acter size, group codes, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, de-
 fault protocol, and password protection.





























                                 20

 

 Port Access

 Port access is the characteristic which determines how a port may ac-
 cess or be accessed by interactive users and service nodes. A port on
 a DECserver may be configured in different ways depending on the de-
 vice attached to the port and its intended use. Additionally, differ-
 ent DECserver hardware platforms provide support for different port
 devices.

 o  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the
    device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to
    CONNECT to LAT or Telnet. Additional example: dial-in modem.

 o  Access Remote - Designed for application-driven devices such as asyn-
    chronous printers which are allocated by a service node process.
    This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by mul-
    tiple service nodes. Additional example: dial-out modem.

 o  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal computers
    or printers with keyboards) that require both Local and Remote ac-
    cess. Additional example: dial-in/dial-out modem.

 o  Access None - Designed to allow the Server Manager to disable the
    use of a port.

 With printer support capabilities, the configuration procedure of re-
 mote printers needs to be done once and will be automatically recon-
 figured on system startup. The particular server port must be config-
 ured for remote access and set up to match the characteristics of the
 printer. Improved printer sharing allows a printer on the server to
 be shared among hosts using LAT and hosts using Telnet.

 Terminal Operation

 The DECserver 90TL and 90M software supports the simultaneous oper-
 ation of up to eight asynchronous devices at speeds from 75 bps to 57.6
 Kbps. The DECserver 700 and DECserver 900TM software supports the si-
 multaneous operation of up to 8, 16 or 32 asynchronous devices at speeds
 from 75 bps to 115.2 Kbps.

                                 21

 

 The DECserver Network Access Software supports:

 o  Data leads only support

 o  Full modem control (DS700-08 only)

 o  Modem Fallback Features (DS700-08 only)

 o  Signal control (DS90TL and DS90M only)

 o  Signal control with Signal Select (DS700-16 and DS900TM only)

 o  DSR logout

 o  Long Break logout

 o  Signal check

 o  CTS/RTS flow control (DS700-08, DS700-16 and DS900TM only)

 o  DSR/DTR flow control

 o  XON/XOFF flow control

 o  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

 o  Block Mode transfers up to 2,048 bytes

 o  Digital personal computer file transfer

 o  Automatic line speed detection

 o  Data transparency mode

 o  Ability to pass break character and error notification

 o  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP

 o  RI simulation for DTEs that require it (DS700-08, DS700-16 and DS900TM
    only)

 Server Management

 Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server op-
 eration. The Server Manager in privileged mode can set up server iden-
 tification information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the
 operating characteristics of the server. Troubleshooting facilities

                                 22

 

 include diagnostic tests, a remote console feature, and online statis-
 tics.

 A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by loop-
 ing messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware in-
 terface at the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can ex-
 ecute a command to transmit test data to their terminal, or the Server
 Manager can send test data to any terminal.

 The capability also exists for the Server Manager to test a service
 connection by sending data from the initiating port to the service node
 and back again. The data is then compared and any discrepancies re-
 ported. At the service node, the data can be looped back by the LAT
 protocol or internally or externally at the service port. This fea-
 ture is supported only by DECserver service nodes; OpenVMS service nodes
 do not support this service loopback capability.

 The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These in-
 clude the following: Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol statis-
 tics, port character counters, and port error statistics. This data
 can be displayed and zeroed by the Server Manager. Server parameters
 that can be modified and displayed include the server identification,
 circuit timer, session limits, and login limits.

 Internet statistics are also maintained by the server. Internet char-
 acteristics such as Internet address and subnet mask can be modified
 and displayed. IP, ICMP, TCP, IP, UDP, DNS, and SNMP protocol statis-
 tics can be displayed.












                                 23

 

 Remote Server Management

 The DECserver implements the console carrier feature which enables ac-
 cess to the DECserver local mode from either a Telnet host or from a
 Phase IV or Phase V DECnet host on the same LAN. With the exception
 of remote console port configuration, the entire local mode user in-
 terface is accessible to the remote console carrier user. This includes
 the privileged commands if the user knows the server's privileged pass-
 word. This capability allows centralized server management and remote
 server diagnosis.

 The Telnet Remote Console feature is also available and can be used
 to support remote server management as stated above.

 DECserver Operation

 The DECserver ROM-based firmware provides the necessary maintenance
 operation protocols for downline loading DECserver software from a TCP
 /IP host via BOOTP/TFTP or from a Phase IV or Phase V DECnet load host
 over the Ethernet into server memory. All self-test diagnostics are
 in DECserver ROM and are executed on power-up prior to downline load-
 ing the server. In the event of a bugcheck caused by a fatal error,
 the unit will normally attempt to upline dump server memory to the load
 host. The upline dump is via either BOOTP/TFTP or MOP. Following this,
 the unit will automatically initialize itself and invoke a downline
 load.

 DECserver Configuration and Performance

 The process of configuring the DECserver is based primarily on trade-
 offs of cost and performance within the realm of satisfying user ap-
 plication requirements. Network applications will range from low-speed
 /low-cost to those of relatively high performance (e.g., connecting
 high-speed local terminals to local hosts within a LAN). The perfor-
 mance of a given server is a function of the expected network traf-
 fic, the load on hosts to which terminals are connected, and resul-
 tant processing pursuant to the dedicated function of the unit. Thus
 performance depends on several factors:

 o  Number of terminals

                                 24

 

 o  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

 o  Terminal speeds

 o  Terminal user applications

 o  Number and size of host buffers

 o  Terminal workload

 In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or Digital
 Software Specialist should perform a level of application analysis that
 addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data throughput can-
 not be calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line speed,
 since many factors already discussed in this section may reduce the
 actual throughput.
























                                 25

 

 Communications - DECserver 700/DECserver 900TM Hardware Dependent

 The DECserver 700 is available in two models: the DECserver 700-16,
 and the DECserver 700-08. The DECserver 700-16 provides attachment for
 16 asynchronous devices via MJ8 connectors (also referred to as RJ45
 connectors). The DECserver 900TM provides attachment for 32 asynchronous
 devices via MJ8 connectors (also referred to as RJ45 connectors). The
 DECserver 700-16 and DECserver 900TM conform to the DEC423 electri-
 cal interface standard for local connections, and support two user se-
 lectable modem signaling options: CTS/RTS/DSR/DTR or RI/DCD/DSRS/DTR.
 DEC423 is a superset of EIA-423-A/CCITT V1.0 with some exceptions, and
 supports longer cable runs and higher signaling speeds. The DECserver
 700-08 provides attachment for eight asynchronous devices via DB25 male
 connectors. Both DECserver 700 models support asynchronous devices with
 interfaces that conform to EIA/TIA-232-E/CCITT V.24/V.28.

 The DECserver 700-16 and DECserver 900TM can sustain an aggregate char-
 acter throughput of 215,000 characters per second. The DECserver 700-
 08 can sustain an aggregate character throughput of 120,000 charac-
 ters per second. The DECserver 700-08 hardware has eight DB25 male con-
 nectors integral to the box. Each port can be individually configured
 in various modes:

 o  Modem Control (DS700-08 only)

 o  Signal Control with Signal Select (DS700-16 and DS900TM only)

 o  Data leads with DSR logout (if a terminal is powered down the ses-
    sion is automatically disconnected)

 o  Data leads with signal check (checks signal status before and dur-
    ing a session)

 o  DSR/DTR flow control

 o  CTS/RTS flow control

 o  XON/XOFF flow control

 o  Long Break logout

 o  Modem Fallback Feature

                                 26

 

 o  RI simulation for DTEs that require it

 Communications - DECserver 90TL and DECserver 90M Hardware Dependent

 The DECserver 90TL and DECserver 90M uses DEC 423-A electrical inter-
 face standard for local connections, which is compatible with the DEC
 EIA/TIA-232-E/CCITT V.24/V.28 interface and supports eight asynchronous
 devices operating at speeds up to 57.6 Kbps with DTR/DSR (Data Ter-
 minal Ready/Data Terminal Set Ready) signaling. The DECserver 90TL and
 90M can sustain an aggregate character throughput of 30,000 charac-
 ters per second. The DECserver 90TL and DECserver 90M hardware have
 eight MJ8 connectors integral to the box. Each port can be individ-
 ually configured in various modes:

 o  Data leads only

 o  Signal Control

 o  Data leads with DSR logout (if a terminal is powered down the ses-
    sion is automatically disconnected)

 o  Data leads with signal check (checks signal status before and dur-
    ing a session)

 o  DSR/DTR flow control

 o  Long Break logout

 The DECserver 90TL and 90M DSR and DTR signals can be used to control
 some modems. The control signals required between a communications server
 and a modem are determined by the modem and, in some cases, Telecom-
 munications Utility regulations. To provide satisfactory operation,
 the modem must be configured as follows:

 o  DSR - The modem must assert DSR when it has connected to an open
    telephone line and the modem is ready to establish an outgoing call.
    The modem must deassert DSR when it is not connected to an open tele-
    phone line.


                                 27

 

 o  DTR - When DTR is asserted by the server, the modem must be put into
    a state of readiness for receiving an incoming call, or the modem
    must be made ready to initiate an outgoing call. When DTR is de-
    asserted, the modem must disconnect from the telephone line and pre-
    vent subsequent connections to the telephone line.

 Modems that cannot be configured in this way are not compatible with
 the DECserver 90TL and DECserver 90M.

 The DECserver 90TL and 90M can operate with a modem that is speed buffer-
 ing only if the modem and server are configured for XON/XOFF flow con-
 trol and the data is nonbinary. For binary data communication with a
 modem that is speed buffering and is not configured for XON/XOFF flow
 control, a communications server with CTS/RTS flow control is needed
 (such as the DECserver 700).

 The modems that have been tested with the DECservers are specified in
 the System Support Addendum (SSA 46.13.02-x).

 Restrictions on DECserver Usage

 While terminal connections using the DECserver have been designed to
 simulate direct terminal connections as much as possible, a few dif-
 ferences necessarily exist because of the nature of the product. Un-
 der most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by termi-
 nal users or service node application programs. However, applications
 which are directly dependent on the following functions may not op-
 erate as with a direct connection:

 o  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed,
    character size, and parity by manipulating system data structures

 o  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typ-
    ically less than 200 ms) to operate

 o  Applications that use an alternate terminal driver in the service
    node

 o  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device
    names

                                 28

 

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 46.13.02-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For OpenVMS Systems and Alpha AXP Systems:

 o  OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS AXP Operating System

 o  DECnet/OSI for OpenVMS (Phase IV or Phase V)

 For ULTRIX Systems:

 o  ULTRIX Operating System

 o  MOP

 For AXP OSF/1[R] Operating Systems:

 o  AXP OSF/1 Operating System

 o  BOOTP/TFTP

 For MS-DOS[R] Systems:

 o  MS-DOS Operating System

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS

 For UNIX Systems:

 The following generic operating systems are supported. Note that com-
 plete support cannot be granted on systems where customization has taken
 place. Also, note that some UNIX implementations, not listed below,
 may operate successfully, but no support is implied.

 o  BOOTP/TFTP

    One of the following:

    -  SunOS

                                 29

 

    -  OSF/1[R]

    -  IBM AIX[R]

    -  SCO[TM] UNIX System V/386

    -  HP-UX[R]

 Some System V systems, such as HP-UX and SCO, may not support the up-
 line dump of server memory.

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 46.13.02-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software License: QL-0LWA9-AA
 Software Media: QA-0LWA*-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-0LWAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-0LWA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 The DECserver software license applies to the DECserver on which the
 server software runs, not to service host node CPUs in the network.

 This product does not provide support for the OpenVMS License Manage-
 ment Facility. A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not required for
 installation or use of this version of the product.



                                 30

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.


 [R] FTP is a registered trademark of Schere Laboratories, Inc.

 [R] HP-UX is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.

 [R] IBM, AT, and AIX are registered trademarks of International
    Business Machines Corporation.

 [R] MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [R] OSF/1 is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [R] UNIX is a registered trademark of American Telephone and Tele-
    graph Co.

 [TM]SCO is a trademark of Santa Cruz Operations, Inc.

 [TM]X Window System is a trademark of Massachusetts Institute of
    Technology.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, Alpha AXP, AXP, DEC, DECnet, DECserver, Dig-
    ital, LA, LAT, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster,
    VT100, VT300, VT330, VT340, and VT420 are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.

 ©1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All Rights Reserved.


                                 31
