 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1 Services for         SPD 33.22.01
                          DECwindows, Version 1.0A

           DESCRIPTION

           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows provides a DECwindows style
           User Interface for ALL-IN-1, as well as extensions to ALL-IN-1
           functionality. It works in conjunction with and assumes that
           ALL-IN-1 V2.4 resides on the same system.

           The ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows provides ALL-IN-1 users
           on X-Windows supported devices an alternate choice of user
           interface. Users can select either push button or pull down
           menus at any time during their ALL-IN-1 session, or can choose
           to use the standard FMS forms user interface.

           Additionally, ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows allows com-
           pound document processing within ALL-IN-1 by allowing DECwrite
           to be used as an editor from the word processing menu. Doc-
           uments created with DECwrite from ALL-IN-1 can easily be stored
           in the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet.

           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows further enhances the CDA
           support of ALL-IN-1 by providing nine viewer windows. Three
           windows are pre-assigned, allowing for:

           o  Full page DDIF, WPL, or text document viewing, includ-
              ing links, graphics, and images

           o  Electronic Mail message viewing

           o  Time Management Calendar viewing (Views can remain dis-
              played while the user edits or performs other ALL-IN-1
              tasks.)

                                    DIGITAL            December 1991

                                                         AE-PBCXB-TE

 



           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows,            SPD 33.22.01
           Version 1.0A

           These three viewer windows can be customized. An additional
           six viewer windows are for optional site usage.


           Features

           The ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows provides:

           User Interface

           User Selectable - A DECwindows style pulldown or push but-
           ton user interface in addition to the standard FMS forms user
           interface. The choice of user interface is selectable by in-
           dividual user.

           User interface styles can also be customized.

           Pull Down and Push Button Features:

           Easy Navigation - Mouse point and click is supported on win-
           dowed menus. Users can simply click on the fields to mod-
           ify rather than using the keyboard sequences required to nav-
           igate through the standard FMS forms. Additionally, the mouse
           can be used to select single and multiple documents and de-
           select single documents from Index forms. Selection from "Find"
           (Gold L) lists is made easier - the user clicks on the item
           they want selected and it is automatically entered in the
           correct field on the form.

           Pop-up Menus - Mouse Button 2 is implemented to provide a
           displayed list of menu options and frequently used features.
           The user clicks on the option they want from the pop-up menu.

           The following pop-ups are available:

           o  From a windowed menu, the pop-up lists the menu options.

           o  From an FMS form, the pop-up contains Return, EXIT key,
              Erase and Find, Erase Line, Find, GOLD MENU, Next Screen,
              Prev Screen, Interrupt (Gold I), and Help.

                                       2

 



           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows,            SPD 33.22.01
           Version 1.0A

           The options selectable from the pop-up menu are all customiz-
           able by site.

           Menu Conversion

           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows includes a utility to con-
           vert ALL-IN-1 FMS menus into either pulldown or push but-
           ton displays. This provides an easy way to convert customized
           ALL-IN-1 forms as well as FMS based layered ALL-IN-1 appli-
           cations into DECwindows pulldown or push button displays.

           Compound Document Editing

           Access to What You See-Is-What You Get (WYSIWYG) compound
           document editing from ALL-IN-1 is provided. Users can choose
           to use DECwrite when creating a document from the ALL-IN-1
           Word Processing menu. When editing a previously created com-
           pound document, the DECwrite editor is automatically invoked.
           After the DECwrite session is completed, the resulting com-
           pound document can easily be stored in the ALL-IN-1 File Cab-
           inet.

           This feature is only activated if DECwrite is available on
           the system. This feature is available from the Word Process-
           ing sub-system of ALL-IN-1.

           Viewer Windows

           Viewer windows allow the user to view documents, mail mes-
           sages and Time Management schedules while pausing their other
           ALL-IN-1 tasks. The viewer windows may be resized, left open,
           or set aside as icons. The user can use the mouse, scroll
           bars, and push buttons to navigate through the viewer win-
           dows.

           Three predefined Viewer Windows are provided with ALL-IN-1
           Services for DECwindows:




                                       3

 



           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows,            SPD 33.22.01
           Version 1.0A

           Document Viewer - This option from the Word Processing and
           Word Processing Index menus provides full page compound doc-
           ument viewing including graphics and multiple attachments.
           It displays the currently selected document in the ALL-IN-1
           File Cabinet.

           Electronic Mail Viewer - This option from the Electronic Mes-
           saging and Electronic Messaging Index menus provides view-
           ing of mail messages including graphics and multiple attach-
           ments. A user can choose to display either the currently se-
           lected Mail Message or the next Mail Message in the ALL-IN-1
           File Cabinet Inbox.

           Time Management Calendar Viewer - This Viewer provides the
           user with a snapshot of their events or tasks. The follow-
           ing options are available from all of the Time Management
           menus:

           VEG - View any number of days events

           VET - View current days events and tasks

           VWE - View weeks events expanded

           VWG - View weeks events in a grid form

           VMO - View the month overview

           Up to six additional viewer windows can be added by site cus-
           tomization.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and or hardware configurations as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 33.22.01-x).






                                       4

 



           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows,            SPD 33.22.01
           Version 1.0A

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
           dows).

           CDA Converter Library for VMS

           ALL-IN-1 with all its prerequisite software as specified in
           the Software Product Description (SPD 27.30.xx).

           *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 33.22.01-x) for
              availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
              software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software License: QL-YG4A9-QB
           Software Media: QA-YG4A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-YG4AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-YG4A9-**

           Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
           able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropri-
           ate price book.

           Use of DECwrite with this product is optional. Refer to DECwrite
           for VMS (SPD 25.F7.xx) for ordering information.

           Use of VMS DECwindows Motif[R] with the product is optional.
           Refer to the Software Product Description (SPD 36.09.xx) for
           ordering information.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           The ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows offers a Personal Use
           license. Each Personal Use license allows one identified in-
           dividual to use the layered product.




                                       5

 



           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows,            SPD 33.22.01
           Version 1.0A

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on a Personal
           Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available. For more infor-
           mation on these services, please contact your local Digi-
           tal office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R]    Motif and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks of the
                Open Software Foundation, Inc.

           [R]    MS-DOS is registered trademark of Microsoft Corpora-
                tion.



                                       6

 



           ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows,            SPD 33.22.01
           Version 1.0A


           [TM] Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, CI, CDA, DECnet, DECwin-
                dows, DECwrite, DECstations, MicroVAX, PATHWORKS,
                TK, VT, VMS, VAX, VAXft, VAXstation, VAXserver,
                and VAXcluster are trademarks of Digital Equipment
                Corporation.

































                                       7
