 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5        SPD
           27.58.06

           DESCRIPTION

           VAX RMS Journaling helps maintain the data integrity of RMS
           files in the event of a number of failure scenarios. Jour-
           naling helps to protect RMS file data from becoming lost or
           inconsistent.

           VAX RMS Journaling provides the following three methods of
           journaling:

           o  After-image (AI) journaling provides the ability to redo
              a series of modifications to a data file. This type of
              journaling helps recover lost or corrupted files. After-
              image recovery restores the contents of the file from the
              point of the latest backup copy of that file.

           o  Before-image (BI) journaling provides the ability to undo
              a series of modifications to a data file. This type of
              journaling allows a file to be returned to a previous known
              state. This is useful in the event that a file is updated
              with erroneous data.

           o  Recovery-unit journaling helps maintain transaction in-
              tegrity, where a transaction consists of a group of re-
              lated operations that must be "atomic." That is, either
              all of the operations complete in their entirety or none
              of the operations complete. This type of journaling helps
              prevent data from becoming inconsistent due to the in-
              complete execution of a transaction.


                                    DIGITAL            November 1991

                                                         AE-JG40H-TE

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           Journaling is applied on a file-by-file basis. A file can
           be marked for after-image, before-image, recovery-unit jour-
           naling, or any combination of these methods. Within a given
           application, any combination of journaling methods can be
           used.

           VAX RMS Journaling stores the information necessary for data
           recovery in files known as journals. Multiple data files can
           use the same journal.

           RMS Recovery-Unit Journaling and DECdtm Transactions

           Transactions are defined and managed using the DECdtm trans-
           action services available in VMS. An RMS recovery unit is
           a set of RMS record operations, performed in the context of
           a single process, that are part of transactions coordinated
           by DECdtm services. RMS recovery units are started automat-
           ically by RMS, and RMS recovery units are committed or aborted
           along with the transaction of which they are a part.

           VAX RMS Journaling functions as a participating resource man-
           ager through the utilization of DECdtm services. DECdtm ser-
           vices are implemented using a two-phase commit protocol as
           described in the VMS Operating System Software Product De-
           scription (SPD 25.01.xx). Recovery-unit journaling supports
           both a one-phase and a two-phase commit protocol.

           Remote RMS files (files accessed by means of the DAP/FAL pro-
           tocol) that are marked for recovery-unit journaling can be
           modified within a transaction, and will be included in the
           "atomic unit of work" defined by the transaction. Also, the
           modifications made to RMS files marked for recovery unit jour-
           naling can be combined with modifications made using any re-
           source manager that supports DECdtm services into a single
           "atomic" transaction.






                                       2

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           The Recovery Unit Facility (RUF) services have been super-
           seded by DECdtm services. However, the RUF services are still
           supported and are transparently emulated using the DECdtm
           services. Existing applications written using the RUF ser-
           vices continue to work without recompilation or relinking.

           Supported File Organizations

           All RMS file organizations are supported by VAX RMS Jour-
           naling. Any sequential, relative, or Prolog 3 indexed file
           can use journaling. However, the following restrictions ap-
           ply:

           o  Prolog 1 and Prolog 2 indexed files are not supported by
              VAX RMS Journaling.

           o  Sequential files are limited to a record size of 32,667
              bytes.

           o  Files marked for recovery-unit journaling cannot be writ-
              ten with the DCL WRITE command.

           o  Stream files cannot be modified in shared mode in a re-
              covery unit.

           o  Sequential files having VFC record format do not allow
              shared access for recovery-unit journaling.

           When using recovery-unit journaling with shared fixed-length
           sequential files, any abort processing overwrites records
           added to the recovery unit with zero bytes (null characters).
           This occurs because the record cannot be deleted from the
           file.

           All files that are marked for journaling must reside on Files-11
           Structure Level 2 disks. All journals must also reside on
           a Files-11 Structure Level 2 disks. It is recommended that
           journals used for after-image journaling reside on a disk
           volume that is different from the disk volume where the data
           file that uses the journal resides. Journaling across a net-
           work or to a tape device is not supported.

                                       3

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           Marking Files for Journaling

           VAX RMS Journaling is enabled on a file-by-file basis. Files
           marked for after-image, before-image, and recovery-unit jour-
           naling are enabled by using qualifiers to the DCL command
           SET FILE. Any combination of qualifiers can be used with a
           particular SET FILE command or series of SET FILE commands.
           Files are unmarked for journaling using the SET NOFILE com-
           mand.

           The most recent SET FILE command for a given file overrides
           all previous SET FILE commands for that file.

           Successful marking of an RMS file for journaling requires
           exclusive access to the file specified in the SET FILE com-
           mand. Exclusive access means the RMS file being marked for
           journaling must be closed; that is, application programs ac-
           cessing that file must be shut down before the file can be
           successfully marked for journaling.

           No modifications to application programs are required for
           long-term (after-image or before-image) journaling. Once a
           file has been marked for long-term journaling, journal in-
           formation will be written to the journal each time the file
           is modified. The file must have been opened subsequent to
           the issuance of the SET FILE command that marked the file
           for VAX RMS Journaling. All modifications to the file are
           recorded in the journal until the file is unmarked for jour-
           naling.

           Modifications to application programs are required for recovery-
           unit journaling. At a minimum, the program must specify the
           start and end of a recovery unit, using the recovery unit
           system services. When a file is marked for recovery-unit jour-
           naling, all modifications to that file within an applica-
           tion must be within a recovery unit.

           Journal File Maintenance



                                       4

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           After-image and before-image journals require periodic main-
           tenance. Because journal files can expand indefinitely and
           a journal must reside on a single volume set, occasional re-
           marking of a file for journaling and all of the associated
           operations is required. This implies that applications ac-
           cessing RMS data files marked for after-image or before-image,
           or both, journaling must be stopped periodically for jour-
           nal maintenance operations.

           Recovering Data - Long-Term Journaling

           In the case of long-term (either after-image or before-image)
           journaling, data recovery is done using the RMS Recovery Util-
           ity. Recovery is on a file-by-file basis and must be explic-
           itly requested; it is not done automatically. The RMS Re-
           covery Utility is invoked at DCL level to either roll for-
           ward or roll back changes to the file. The Recovery Util-
           ity requires exclusive access to the file being recovered.
           Changes can be rolled forward or rolled backward until a time
           specified by the user.

           To roll forward a file and redo changes, a VMS backup copy
           of the file must be on disk. This backup copy must have been
           made after the file was marked for after-image journaling.

           Recovering Data - Recovery-Unit Journaling

           No user intervention is required to roll back a recovery unit
           that is incomplete. The rollback of an incomplete transac-
           tion is started and completed automatically the next time
           the user accesses the file.

           Interaction with Backup

           To recover data using after-image journaling, a backup copy
           of the file must be available. This copy must be made with
           the Backup Utility (BACKUP); a copy of the file made with
           the COPY or CONVERT command cannot be used. A backup copy
           of the file must be made after the the SET FILE/AI_JOURNAL
           command is issued but before the file is opened for update.

                                       5

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           BACKUP requires exclusive access to files being backed up.
           No user or application program can access the file until BACKUP
           is finished.

           The use of BACKUP/RECORD is recommended. If the file is then
           rolled forward, the modifications that have been made since
           the most recent backup are applied.

           If a backup copy of a file is rolled forward with the RMS
           Recovery Utility, users must remark the file for after-image
           journaling with the SET FILE/AI_JOURNAL command. A backup
           copy of that file must be made after it has been marked for
           after-image journaling and before application updates are
           allowed.

           A backup copy of the file must be remarked for journaling
           if it is to be used in place of the original file.

           Interaction with VAX Volume Shadowing

           VAX Volume Shadowing can be used in conjunction with after-
           image journaling. After-image journaling helps recover data
           in the following cases not addressed by VAX Volume Shadowing:

           o  Mistaken deletion of a file by a system user or opera-
              tor

           o  Corruption of the file system pointers

           o  RMS file corruption due to a software error or incomplete
              bucket write operations to an indexed file

           Failures Not Addressed by RMS Recovery-Unit Journaling

           Recovery-unit journaling alone does not provide recovery in
           cases when a multi-block bucket write operation to an in-
           dexed file is in progress, leaving the bucket in the indexed
           file in a corrupt state. Use after-image journaling in con-
           junction with recovery-unit journaling to recover from the
           following failed multi-block bucket write operations:

                                       6

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           o  Failure of the VAX host during a multi-block write op-
              eration, such as a VMS crash, halt, power failure, or sys-
              tem shutdown.

           o  Permanent loss of path to the disk during a multi-block
              write operation.

           o  Cancellation of a multi-block write operation in progress.
              This occurs only in disks using DUDRIVER. Other disk drivers
              ignore the cancellation of I/O and are not affected.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) for hardware requirements and supported
           processors.

           OPTIONAL HARDWARE

           None

           CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

           This layered product is fully supported without restrictions
           when installed on any valid and licensed VAXcluster* con-
           figuration. The HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS sections of this prod-
           uct's Software Product Description and the VMS Operating Sys-
           tem Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) list any spe-
           cial hardware required by this product.

           *  VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAX-
              cluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) and
              include CI, Ethernet, and Mixed Interconnect configura-
              tions.







                                       7

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System

           VMS Tailoring

           For VMS V5.x, the following VMS class is required for full
           functionality of this system integrated product:

           o  VMS Required Saveset

           For more information about VMS classes and tailoring, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx).

           OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

           None

           GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

           The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future
           version of this product may be different from the require-
           ments for the current version.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-VDVA*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-VDVAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-VDVA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           The above information is valid at the time of release. Please
           contact your local Digital office for the most up-to-date
           information.



                                       8

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

           This system integrated product supports the VMS License Man-
           agement Facility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           For more information about the License Management Facility,
           refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility Man-
           ual of the VMS documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.








                                       9

 



           VAX RMS Journaling, Version 5.5             SPD 27.58.06



           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DECdtm, VAX, VAX RMS, VAX-
               cluster, and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment
               Corporation.





































                                      10
