 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5      SPD
           27.29.08

           DESCRIPTION

           VMS Volume Shadowing is a VMS System Integrated Product (SIP).
           VMS Volume Shadowing provides high data availability for disk
           storage devices by preventing data loss resulting from me-
           dia deterioration or through controller or device failure.
           This prevents storage subsystem component failures from in-
           terrupting system or application operations. Volume shad-
           owing is sometimes referred to as disk mirroring.

           Volume shadowing maintains multiple redundant copies of data
           on a collection of disks called a shadow set. Shadow sets
           consist of one, two, or three compatible disk volumes that
           are referred to as shadow set members. This duplication of
           data provides enhanced data availability; when data is recorded
           on multiple disk volumes it remains accessible when one vol-
           ume is unavailable. Disk read and write operations continue
           transparently with the remaining members of the shadow set.

           Because a shadow set is made up of multiple disks contain-
           ing the same data, the VMS Volume Shadowing software can read
           from any member of the shadow set. The VMS Volume Shadow-
           ing software determines which disk to read from, for each
           read operation, using an algorithm that maximizes perfor-
           mance. VMS Volume Shadowing ensures that disk write oper-
           ations are duplicated on all shadow set members. For max-
           imum performance, VMS Volume Shadowing ensures that shadow
           set write operations are issued to shadow set members in par-
           allel.


                                    DIGITAL            November 1991

                                                         AE-HP37J-TE

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           If some data on a shadow set member becomes unreadable, the
           shadowing software can read the data from another member.
           Additionally, with Digital Storage Architecture disks, the
           member with unreadable data can be repaired by rewriting the
           data to good, replacement areas provided on each disk.

           VMS system disks and any Files-11 On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS2)
           data disks can be volume shadowed.

           For the purposes of this document, the term CPU is used to
           refer to a single VAX computer, containing one or more pro-
           cessors. A CPU can be a standalone system or a member of a
           VAXcluster system.

           VMS Volume Shadowing provides two modes of operation:

           o  VMS Volume Shadowing Phase I

              This is the original implementation of the VAX Volume
              Shadowing product. VMS Volume Shadowing Phase I performs
              shadowing on VMS systems using Hierarchical Storage Con-
              trollers (HSC). HSC subsystems provide control for RA-
              series Digital Storage Architecture (DSA) disks. This mode
              of shadowing is limited to disks connected to HSCs, ei-
              ther in single CPU or VAXcluster systems. Since shadow
              sets are manipulated by the HSC under the control of VMS
              Volume Shadowing, all members of the set must be directly
              connected to the same HSC.

           o  VMS Volume Shadowing Phase II

              VMS Volume Shadowing Phase II is the second generation
              implementation of volume shadowing for VMS systems. Phase
              II provides support for all Phase I configurations and,
              in addition, supports many more disk controllers and de-
              vices in a wider range of configurations.

              Phase II supports VAXcluster-wide shadowing of all Dig-
              ital Small Computer Storage Interconnect (SCSI) and Dig-
              ital Storage Architecture (DSA) disk storage systems. Phase
              II is not limited to HSC controlled disks; it supports

                                       2

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


              all DSA and Digital SCSI controllers that are locally con-
              nected to a CPU and RF-series controllers/disks connected
              to the Digital Storage System Interconnect (DSSI). Phase
              II volume shadowing also supports VMS MSCP-served DSA and
              Digital SCSI disks located within any supported VAXclus-
              ter configuration.

           It is possible to use both phases of shadowing on the same
           CPU or VAXcluster system at the same time. Any given shadow
           set must be either Phase I or Phase II; a shadow set can-
           not be a mixture of the two modes of shadowing.

           A VMS system parameter is used to enable either, or both,
           modes of shadowing at system initialization. The generic de-
           vice name of a Phase I shadow set is DUS or DJS, for a Phase
           II shadow set the generic name is DSA. When a shadow set is
           mounted the VMS Mount utility uses this variation to iden-
           tify which Phase of volume shadowing is required.

           Characteristics

           Configuration Overview:

           VMS Volume Shadowing requires a minimum of one CPU, a disk
           controller, and a disk unit that is either DSA or SCSI com-
           pliant. Although only one disk is required, there must be
           two or more disks in a shadow set in order to maintain mul-
           tiple copies of the same data. This provides protection against
           failure or deterioration of a single volume.

           Using two controllers provides a further guarantee of data
           availability in the event of a single controller failure.
           VAXcluster systems can be configured with multiple CPUs, in-
           terconnects, controllers, and disks; the resulting config-
           urations are able to provide extremely high data availabil-
           ity.

           Shadow Set Membership:



                                       3

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           A shadow set can have one, two, or three members. The abil-
           ity to have a shadow set with only a single member allows
           a two-member shadow set to continue operation after the fail-
           ure of one member.

           Shadow set members can be added to or removed from the shadow
           set at any time, without affecting system or user operation.

           A disk can be removed from the shadow set by operator com-
           mand, or automatically by the shadowing software. An inop-
           erative disk is removed from the shadow set automatically;
           no operator intervention is required.

           A disk is only added to a shadow set on explicit operator
           command. The shadowing software ensures that the newly added
           shadow set member is made identical to the other member(s)
           by means of a copy operation. Full read and write access to
           the shadow set continues while the copy operation is in progress.

           Transparency to the End User:

           To users and application programs, VMS Volume Shadowing trans-
           parently combines the physical members of a given shadow set
           into a single virtual disk. The shadow set virtual disk acts
           as a single disk; no user or application program modifica-
           tions are necessary to have write data propagated to all of
           the members of a shadow set. VMS Volume Shadowing software
           propagates the data to all shadow set members automatically.
           Similarly, user and application read operations to the vir-
           tual disk are transparently routed to the optimal physical
           shadow set member.

           VMS Volume Shadowing is invisible to application programs
           and users. All commands and program language features that
           address data on non-shadowed disks can be used to address
           data on shadowed disks with no changes.





                                       4

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           Configuration Limits

           Phase I supports a maximum of 16 shadow set members per HSC
           or HSC pair (for dual-pathed disks).

           Phase I supports a maximum of 8 shadow sets per HSC or HSC
           pair (for dual-pathed disks).

           Phase II supports a maximum of 75 shadow sets in a standalone
           or VAXcluster system. This limit is independent of controller
           and device type.

           A system that uses Phase I and Phase II shadowing must ob-
           serve these limits respectively.

           Configuration Restrictions

           Configurations using Phase I shadowing must observe the fol-
           lowing restrictions:

           o  If a CPU is to access any Phase I shadow sets directly,
              the CPU must have a direct CI path to all HSCs that con-
              tain the Phase I shadow sets (be connected to the same
              Star Coupler).

           o  A CI-connected CPU that is directly accessing a Phase I
              shadow set on an HSC cannot access a Phase I shadow set
              that is being VMS MSCP served by another VAXcluster mem-
              ber. A CPU must access all its Phase I shadow sets ei-
              ther locally or via a served path. It cannot do both.

           o  CPUs accessing Phase I shadow sets via an MSCP-served path
              (over the CI or a Local Area Network) cannot add or re-
              move members of the shadow set, they have data access only.

           o  All members of a shadow set must be connected to the same
              HSC. If the members are dual pathed between two HSCs, they
              must be dual pathed between the same pair of HSCs, and
              both HSCs must be connected to the same Star Coupler.


                                       5

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           o  Phase I shadow sets cannot include disk drives that are
              being cached by the HSC60 or HSC90 Cache option. HSC caching
              is disabled for disk units that are mounted into Phase
              I shadow sets.

           o  Phase I shadow sets cannot be created using ESE20 enhanced
              performance solid state disk drives.

           Phase II shadow sets are not subject to any of the above re-
           strictions.

           All members of a given shadow set must be of the same disk
           type and have identical geometry (for example, all RA90 disks
           or all RF71 disks).

           Shadow set members cannot have hardware write protection en-
           abled. Hardware write protection stops volume shadowing soft-
           ware from maintaining identical volumes.

           VMS Volume Shadowing does not support shadow sets mounted
           with the Foreign attribute.

           Phase II provides support for all Digital SCSI disks and con-
           trollers. It is also possible to use Phase II shadowing with
           non-Digital SCSI disks that have READL (read long) and WRITEL
           (write long) commands implemented and use the VMS SCSI disk
           driver (DKDRIVER). Functionality is restricted when SCSI disks
           that do not support READL and WRITEL are shadowed; disk bad
           block errors encountered when using these disks can cause
           members to be removed from the shadow set. The VMS Mount util-
           ity will, by default, not permit SCSI disks that do not im-
           plement READL and WRITEL to become members of a shadow set.
           This behavior can be overridden with the No_Forced_Error Mount
           qualifier.







                                       6

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS - Phase I

           At least one HSC-series controller is required. Phase I sup-
           ports all HSC controllers, and all RA-series disk devices
           that can be attached to them, as defined in the VMS Oper-
           ating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS - Phase II

           VMS Volume Shadowing Phase II does not depend on specific
           hardware in order to operate. All shadowing functions can
           be performed on any supported CPU. Members of a shadow set
           can be located on a single CPU or anywhere in a VAXcluster
           system. There are no restrictions on the location of shadow
           set members beyond the valid disk configurations defined in
           the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
           25.01.xx) and the VAXcluster Software Product Description
           (SPD 29.78.xx).

           Disk Controller Support:

           Phase II supports all HSC controllers, DSSI adapters, and
           local DSA or Digital SCSI controllers, as defined in the VMS
           Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

           Disk Drive Support:

           Phase II supports all ESE, RA, RF, RD, and RZ-series disk
           devices, as defined in the VMS Operating System Software Prod-
           uct Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

           Notes:

           o  Phase II shadow sets can mix HSC disks that are cached
              by the HSC60 or HSC90 Cache option with disks that are
              not cached.

           o  KDM70 controllers must be at microcode revision 2.5, at
              a minimum.


                                       7

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           o  The UDA50 UNIBUS controller does not support the ESE-series
              devices.

           o  The integrated disk controller provided in MicroVAX 2000
              systems is not DSA compliant, and is not supported by VMS
              Volume Shadowing.

           o  RD-series disk drives can only be shadowed when connected
              to RQDX-series disk controllers.

           VAXcluster Environment

           VMS Volume Shadowing is fully supported in a VAXcluster when
           installed on any valid and licensed configuration.

           A VAXcluster Quorum Disk cannot be shadowed.

           For additional information, refer to the VAXcluster Soft-
           ware Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5 is a VMS System Integrated
           Product that requires VMS, Version 5.5.

           For additional information, refer to the VMS Operating Sys-
           tem Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

           HSC Software, Version 6.0, at a minimum, is required for the
           HSC40, HSC60, HSC70, and HSC90. HSC Software, Version 4.1,
           at a minimum, is required for the HSC50.

           OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

           None






                                       8

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

           The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future
           version of this product may be different from the require-
           ments for the current version.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-AB2A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-AB2AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-AB2A*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           The above information is valid at time of release. Please
           contact your local Digital office for the most up-to-date
           information.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support:

           VMS Volume Shadowing supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility (LMF).

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           Every CPU in a VAXcluster that mounts a Phase II shadow set
           must have a VMS Volume Shadowing License installed. VAXclus-
           ter members that only mount VMS MSCP-served Phase I shadow
           sets do not require a VMS Volume Shadowing License due to


                                       9

 



           VMS Volume Shadowing, Version 5.5           SPD 27.29.08


           the restricted functionality available with this mode of op-
           eration.

           For more information about the License Management Facility,
           refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Utility Man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, HSC, HSC40, HSC50, HSC60, HSC70,
               HSC90, KDM, MicroVAX, RA, RD, RQDX, UDA, UNIBUS,
               VAX, VAXcluster, and VMS are trademarks of Digital
               Equipment Corporation.















                                      10
