 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0  SPD 36.06.00

           DESCRIPTION

           DEC ACA Services for VMS is an implementation of Digital's
           Application Control Architecture. It consists of platform-
           independent software services that address the interaction
           of independently developed applications across different com-
           puting environments.

           DEC ACA Services for VMS provides application developers and
           system integrators with a set of software services for in-
           tegrating independently developed applications and services
           across a distributed environment. Facilities are provided
           for registering, installing and invoking applications, and
           for handling interapplication communication and interaction
           among VMS and ULTRIX computing environments.

           An object-oriented model is used to define applications to
           DEC ACA Services for VMS Runtime system, allowing sharing
           and re-usability of application definitions. However, ap-
           plications do not have to be written using object-oriented
           programming techniques or data storage.

           DEC ACA Services for VMS is based on a client/server model.
           A client is defined as any process or application request-
           ing an application invocation via the ACA Services proce-
           dure call. A server is defined as the process that fulfills
           the request.




                                    DIGITAL           September 1991

                                                         AE-PH3TA-TE

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           DEC ACA Services for VMS provides the following levels of
           application integration; the first two levels require no ap-
           plication source code changes.

           1. Register and run an existing application located anywhere
              in the network

           2. Publish (or encapsulate) an existing application command
              or call interface so any program on the network with ap-
              propriate authorization can use the externally registered
              application functions

           3. Develop new distributed applications with calls to ACA
              Services to take the maximum advantage of ACA capabil-
              ities

           Development Option

           The DEC ACA Services for VMS Development Option allows an
           application developer or system integrator to compile and
           link an application based on ACA Services and to integrate
           an application to the ACA Services runtime system.

           Runtime Option

           The DEC ACA Services for VMS Runtime Option allows users to
           run a previously developed ACA-based application on a tar-
           get machine. Program development is not supported under the
           Runtime Only Option.

           Features

           o  Facilities for cooperating applications to carry on a short
              or long-lived dialogue, either synchronously or asynchronously.

           o  Portable call interface.

           o  One routine call to handle application location, invo-
              cation, and communication.


                                       2

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           o  Application solutions can take advantage of new dynam-
              ically added applications/services without re-compiling
              or re-linking.

           o  Class repository to store information and behavior of ap-
              plications.

           o  Facility to load and unload class definitions.

           o  Multiple inheritance model allowing for inheritance of
              attributes and behavior among related applications.

           o  Context object to store user preference, user profile in-
              formation, and other context information.

           o  Facility to define context object information.

           o  Storage class mechanism to incorporate external data repos-
              itories.

           o  Command line utility to aid in software development and
              system management.



















                                       3

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           Class Repository

           DEC ACA Services for VMS stores information and behavior about
           applications in the class repository. The class repository
           contains the object-oriented abstractions of operations de-
           fined for a set of applications and services. It contains
           the definitions of classes, messages, methods, and method
           servers for specific applications. It also contains attribute
           information for classes and methods. Attributes include char-
           acteristic information such as the application platform or
           how to start a particular application.

           Context Object

           DEC ACA Services for VMS stores user preference, user pro-
           file information, and context information in an entity called
           the context object. Context objects can specify information
           for a specific system, group, or user. For example, users
           can specify the specific node on which to start an appli-
           cation or the preferred operating system type.

           Application Definition and Registration

           A declarative language (Class Repository Language) is pro-
           vided to define an object-oriented class hierarchy. Using
           a standard text editor, users create definition files that
           are loaded into the class repository using the command line
           utility. In addition, the class repository can be managed
           using the Application Programming Interface (API) provided.

           Context Object Definition and Registration

           A declarative language (Context Object Language) is provided
           to define tables and attributes stored in the context ob-
           ject. Using a standard text editor, users create definition
           files that are loaded into the context object using the com-
           mand line utility. In addition, context objects can be man-
           aged using the Application Programming Interface (API) pro-
           vided.


                                       4

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           Once information is loaded in the class repository and con-
           text object, it can be shared by multiple users on the same
           node or machines with shared disks.

           Object-Oriented Interface to Applications

           Applications are defined to DEC ACA Services for VMS using
           an object-oriented model. One or more applications are de-
           fined as a class with attributes that describe its charac-
           teristics, messages that define its interface, and a series
           of methods associated with each message which define its im-
           plementation(s).

           Having multiple methods associated with a message allow users
           to define methods that are platform-specific, while the ap-
           plication definitions themselves remain platform indepen-
           dent.

           The class hierarchy and environment is extensible at run-
           time. Existing applications can use new applications with-
           out modification making DEC ACA Services for VMS useful in
           many application domains.

           DEC ACA Services for VMS supports a multiple inheritance model.
           That is, any child class (subclass) can have more than one
           parent class (superclass). For example, a single applica-
           tion can inherit the behavior of both a browser and a re-
           port formatter.

           Several fundamental class definitions are provided with the
           product and loaded in the class repository at installation
           time. Users define new applications and methods by extend-
           ing these classes.

           DEC ACA Services for VMS does not require applications to
           agree on a single storage system for their data, allowing
           low-adoption cost and re-usability of information. Appli-
           cations data repositories are integrated into the DEC ACA
           Services for VMS Runtime system using a general mechanism


                                       5

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           called storage class. A storage class describes the exter-
           nal behavior of a specific data storage repository. Stor-
           age classes, in conjunction with an object's instance han-
           dle, provide access to the data repository.

           Application Location and Invocation

           DEC ACA Services for VMS performs method resolution when a
           call to invoke a method is issued (ACAS_InvokeMethod). From
           information stored in the context object and class repos-
           itory, method resolution determines:

           o  Method to select from a list of methods

           o  Method server to execute the method

           DEC ACA Services for VMS will locate a method server or, if
           none is active, startup a server. One method server can in-
           clude multiple methods or services.

           Programmers usually write their own method server to han-
           dle methods. However, DEC ACA Services for VMS provides a
           "script" server for rapid integration of VMS DCL command pro-
           cedures or UNIX[R] shell scripts.

           Method servers can be linked into the client process when
           separate client and server processors are not required. This
           can optimize performance for frequently used code and sim-
           plify debugging.

           Methods can also be stored in shareable libraries and DEC
           ACA Services for VMS will load the library when the meth-
           ods need to be accessed.








                                       6

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           Communication Between Applications

           Communication between applications is handled through the
           DEC ACA Services for VMS procedure call (ACAS_InvokeMethod).
           Client programs are insulated from the details of communi-
           cation and do not need to know the platform where the server
           resides. DEC ACA Services for VMS present method arguments
           in their natural form on the server platform.

           Applications can interact with each other at any level in-
           cluding peer-to-peer or parent-child. Dialogs can be short-
           lived or long-lived. In a long-lived dialog, the program-
           mer can get a handle on an application to be used for the
           entire session. Using the same interface, users can spec-
           ify whether the communication should be synchronous or asyn-
           chronous.

           DEC ACA Services for VMS uses DECrpc for the low-level net-
           work services. The programmer is insulated from the DECrpc
           interface.

           Application Programming Interface

           The Application Programming Interface provides application
           developers with a consistent set of routines for use across
           different platforms. Routines are provided for:

           o  Method invocation

           o  Server registration and operation

           o  Instance handle management

           o  Context object management

           o  Class Repository management

           In addition, the interface provides various utility routines
           including list management routines. Most DEC ACA Services
           for VMS routines use a list data structure for aggregate data
           representation.

                                       7

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           A procedure call (ACAS_InvokeMethod) is provided to locate
           and startup an application and handle the communication be-
           tween clients and servers. DEC ACA Services for VMS supports
           arguments which allow servers to return a variable amount
           of information.

           Command Line Utility

           DEC ACA Services provides a VMS and ULTRIX style command line
           utility. It is a software development and system management
           facility providing the following functionality:

           o  Generate dispatch source code portions based on defined
              objects

           o  Load and manage objects in the class repository

           o  Load and manage context objects

           o  Manage ACA Services control servers and method servers

           o  Access ACA Services argument information

           Security

           If DECnet is installed on the system, ACA Services will use
           DECnet for authentication. Authentication is the process of
           determining and verifying the identity of the requester. Sys-
           tem managers can choose whether to enable or disable authen-
           tication for each node. All interacting nodes must use the
           same type of authentication.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 36.06.00-x).





                                       8

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

           o  VMS Operating System

           For Workstations (both with or without DECwindows Interface):

           o  VMS Workstation Software

           DEC ACA Services for VMS Kit includes:

           o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection Subset

           o  DECrpc

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 36.06.00-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
           dows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Development Option

           Software Licenses: QL-XKAA*-**
           Software Media: QA-XKAA*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-XKAA*-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-XKAA*-**

           Runtime Option

           Software Licenses: QL-XKBA*-**
           Software Media: QA-XKBA*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-XKBA*-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-XKBA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

                                       9

 



           DEC ACA Services for VMS, Version 2.0       SPD 36.06.00


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use plus Personal Use basis.

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R]  UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Labo-
                ratories, Inc.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECnet, DECwindows,
                MicroVAX, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft,
                VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are trademarks of
                Digital Equipment Corporation.













                                      10
