 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1      SPD 25.D2.02

     DESCRIPTION

     DEC GKS-3D (Graphical Kernel System for Three Dimensions) pro-
     vides the application programmer with a set of functions for
     interactive and non-interactive computer graphics applications
     that need to define and display computer generated three dimen-
     sional pictures using a variety of computer graphics equipment.
     DEC GKS-3D as a development tool is a solid base for portable,
     device-independent, three dimensional graphics application de-
     velopment.

     DEC GKS-3D is a subroutine library packaged as a VMS Run-Time
     Library with shareable image device handlers.

     DEC GKS-3D implements the International Standard (ISO 8805)
     Graphical Kernel System for Three Dimensional device-independent
     graphics. DEC GKS-3D conforms to level 2c of the GKS-3D Inter-
     national Standard. Thus, it provides full output capabilities
     including workstation independent segment storage (level 2),
     and full input capabilities (synchronous and asynchronous input
     (level c)).

     DEC GKS-3D is upwardly compatible with Digital's DEC GKS (two
     dimensional Graphical Kernel System). Two dimensional graphics
     applications, written to conform to the ISO standard, will run
     without change using DEC GKS-3D.

     Features

     Viewing Operations

                                  DIGITAL                October 1990

                                                          AE-MQ13C-TE

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     DEC GKS-3D allows the user to specify views of 3D objects and
     define the working coordinate system (world coordinates). World
     coordinates can have any scale. For example, one application
     might have a maximum range from 0 to 1000.0 while another appli-
     cation might limit the range from 0.01 to 0.1.

     The user can also control multiple simultaneous views of the
     same object on separate display surfaces, as well as the posi-
     tion of the picture on the surface. For example, one applica-
     tion program can display an image of a cube in one window on a
     workstation and at the same time in another window (on another
     workstation if required), it can display a detail of the rear of
     the cube all from the same application program.

     GKS-3D Metafile

     DEC GKS-3D provides an interface to sequential files, the ISO
     suggested GKS-3D Metafile for filing and reading (interpreting)
     and the ISO suggested GKSM Metafile for reading (interpret-
     ing) graphical information. The metafiles can be used for the
     following purposes:

     o  Storing graphical information in a device independent format

     o  Transporting graphical information between systems with
        compatible versions of GKS-3D

     o  Transporting graphical information from one DEC GKS-3D appli-
        cation to another

     o  Transporting graphical information from a DEC GKS application
        to a DEC GKS-3D application

     o  Storing accompanying nongraphical information

     Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM) Output

     DEC GKS-3D provides support for storing information using the
     Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM). CGM is an approved ANSI stan-
     dard format (ANSI X3.122-1986). DEC GKS supports CGM output for
     all three of the following formats:

                                     2

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



        Clear Text Encoding - Graphical output data stored in the
        clear text format is easily created, viewed and modified
        using a common text editor. It is also a suitable format for
        transferring graphical output data through networks that only
        support the transfer of a text file.
        Character Encoding - Graphical output data is typically
        stored in the character format to attain minimal file
        size. Data stored in this format is particularly suitable
        for transfer through networks which cannot support binary
        transfers.

        Binary Encoding - Graphical output data stored in binary
        format is very compact and the fastest to read and write.
        But it is least suitable for transmission over communication
        lines as all 8 bits in byte are meaningful.

     DDIF Output (Digital's Document Interchange Format)

     DEC GKS-3D provides support for storing two dimensional views of
     three dimensional objects encoded in DDIF. Views stored in DDIF
     may be then processed by applications which conform to Digital's
     Compound Document Architecture.

     DECwindows

     DEC GKS-3D provides support for VMS DECwindows.

     Escape Feature

     DEC GKS-3D provides an escape mechanism which allows the appli-
     cation programmer to access device capabilities not defined in
     the GKS standard.

     Character Sets

     DEC GKS-3D provides a series of device independent stroke pre-
     cision character fonts. These character fonts were originally
     digitized by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the Naval Surface Weapons
     Laboratory and supplied to Digital by the National Bureau of
     Standards.

                                     3

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     DEC GKS-3D also provides text support for the native character
     set(s) of the supported graphical devices.

     In DEC GKS-3D, text lies on a plane which may be arbitrarily
     positioned in 3D space.

     Language Bindings

     DEC GKS-3D functions can be accessed by four sets of subroutine
     calls:

     o  An interface which conforms to the ISO (DIS 8806/1) FORTRAN
        binding to GKS-3D.

        The FORTRAN binding interface allows users to port GKS-3D
        applications which are written in FORTRAN across heteroge-
        neous operating systems with conforming implementations of
        the FORTRAN binding and GKS-3D.

     o  An interface which conforms to a 3D extension of the ISO (DIS
        8651/4) C language binding to GKS.

     o  A VMS specific interface is provided which follows the
        standard VMS calling conventions and is callable by many
        different languages.

     o  A DEC GKS compatibility binding (2D) which follows the
        standard VMS calling conventions and is callable by many
        different languages.

     Graphic Handlers

     DEC GKS-3D provides support for a wide variety of Digital and
     non-Digital graphics output devices and support for Digital
     VAXstations as input and output devices. Refer to the OPTIONAL
     HARDWARE section in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D2.02-x)

     Compatibility with two dimensional DEC GKS

                                     4

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     DEC GKS-3D is upward compatible with Digital's DEC GKS (two
     dimensional Graphical Kernel System) in the limit of the GKS-3D
     standard required upwards compatibility with the GKS standard.
     DEC GKS graphics applications, written to conform to the ISO
     standard, will run without change using DEC GKS-3D.

     Output Functions

     o  Segments - DEC GKS-3D provides a set of functions for the
        creation, manipulation, and deletion of stored groups of
        output primitives called segments.

     o  Immediate Mode - It is not mandatory to use segments. DEC
        GKS-3D provides a way of immediately outputting graphic
        primitives to the device(s). This can be useful in certain
        applications.

     o  Polyline - Draws one or more connected line segments between
        points defined in 3D space by an arbitrary sequence of 3D
        coordinates.

     o  Polymarker - Draws one or more symbols in a position defined
        by arbitrary 3D coordinates, which can mark significant
        points in a picture.

     o  Text - Draws any character string on a plane arbitrarily
        placed within 3D space. Characters can be displayed in a
        variety of fonts and orientations.

     o  Fill Area - Draws a polygonal area on a plane arbitrarily
        placed in 3D space, which can be hollow or filled with a
        uniform color, a pattern, or a hatch style.

     o  Fill Area Set - Draws a set of polygonal areas which can be
        hollow or filled with a uniform color, a pattern or a hatch
        style. Edge control is provided.

     o  Cell Array - Draws a rectangular image, specified by a two-
        dimensional array of picture elements, on a plane arbitrarily
        placed in 3D space.

                                     5

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     o  Generalized Drawing Primitive (GDP) - Allows access to draw-
        ing capabilities of graphics devices which are not used by
        the functions listed above. For example, two GDPs commonly
        used are circles and arcs.



































                                     6

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     Attributes

     Each output function has an associated set of ``attributes''
     which control the appearance of the output. Attributes can be
     defined in groups (called bundles) or individually. Examples of
     such attributes are:

     o  Line Type - The programmer can control the style of a line.
        For example, lines can be dotted or dashed.

     o  Line Width - In addition to line type, the width and scale of
        the line in 3D can be controlled.

     o  Color - Color selection is performed by selecting one of the
        predefined colors or by specifying the red, green, and blue
        intensities required to define a particular color on color
        devices.

     Input Functions

     DEC GKS-3D supports synchronous and asynchronous input using any
     of the following input methods:

     o  Locator - Returns a point within the user's working coordi-
        nate system.

     o  Stroke - Returns a series of points within the user's working
        coordinate system

     o  Valuator - Returns a single real value within a specified
        range.

     o  Choice - Returns a status and a single non-negative integer
        within a specified range.

     o  String - Returns a string of characters.

     o  Pick - Returns a status and a segment name and pick identi-
        fier. (Primitives outside segments cannot be picked.)

     Control Functions

                                     7

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     DEC GKS-3D provides control functions for managing the manner
     and devices on which pictures will be displayed. These include
     GKS-3D initialization and termination, and functions that con-
     trol the opening and closing of logical graphical devices.

     Inquiry Functions

     DEC GKS-3D provides a complete set of inquiry functions which
     aid in developing modular device-independent programs.

     DEC GKS-3D Run-Time Only License

     The DEC GKS-3D Run-Time license does not allow the user to cre-
     ate new applications, but rather allows execution of applica-
     tions that were previously developed using the full DEC GKS-3D
     Developer's Kit.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D2.02-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

     For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

     VMS Operating System

     For Workstations Running VWS:

     VMS Operating System
     VMS Workstation Software

     For Workstations Running DECwindows:

     VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
     dows)

     *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D2.02-x) for
        availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
        software, and for information regarding components of VMS
        DECwindows.

                                     8

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     ORDERING INFORMATION

     For the Full VMS Development Kit:

     Software Licenses: QL-VFXA*-**
     Software Media: QA-VFXAA-H*
     Software Documentation: QA-VFXAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-VFXA*-**

     For the VMS Run-Time Only Kit:

     Software Licenses: QL-VFYA*-**
     Software Media: QA-VFYAA-H*
     Software Documentation: QA-VFXAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-VFYA*-**

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
     cility. License units for this product are allocated on a
     CPU-capacity basis.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

                                     9

 


     DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.1                     SPD 25.D2.02



     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

     [R]  Hewlett-Packard is a registered trademark of Hewlett-
          Packard Company.

     [TM] LaserWriter is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

     [TM] HPGL is a trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.

     [TM] LASERGRAPHICS MPS-200 is a trademark of Laser Graphics,
          Inc.

     [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, DEC GKS, DEC GKS-3D, DECwindows, LN03R,
          LN03 PLUS, LPS40, ReGIS, VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXcluster,
          VAXserver and VT are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corpo-
          ration.

















                                    10
