Product Name:  DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.1			SPD 26.20.09

DESCRIPTION

DEC GKS for VMS (Graphical Kernal System) provides the application programmer 
with a single interface to a variety of graphic devices. DEC GKS for VMS is a 
solid base for portable, device-independent two-dimensional graphics 
application development. DEC GKS for VMS is a development tool that application 
programmers can use to produce computer generated pictures.

DEC GKS for VMS is a subroutine library packaged as a set of VMS shareable 
images, which implements the ISO (IS 7942) and ANSI (ANS X3.124- 1985) GKS 
standard for two-dimensional (2D) device-independent graphics. DEC GKS for VMS 
conforms to level 2c of the GKS standard which provides full output 
capabilities, including workstation independent segment storage (level 2), and 
full input capabilities (synchronous and asynchronous input (level c)). DEC GKS  
for VMSsupports DECwindows.

Features

Viewing Operations

DEC GKS for VMS allows the user to define the working coordinate system (world 
coordinates). World coordinates can have any scale. For example, one 
application might have a maximum range from 0 to 1000.0 while another 
application might limit the range from 0.01 to 0.1.

The user can also control multiple simultaneous views of the same picture on 
separate display surfaces, as well as the position of the picture on the 
surface. For example, one application program can display a map of the United 
States on a VT340 and at the same an enlarged section of the map on a LVP16 Pen 
Plotter. (e.g., New England states).

GKS Metafile

DEC GKS for VMS provides an interface to sequential files, the ISO and ANSI 
suggested GKS Metafile (GKSM) for filing graphical information. The metafiles 
can be used for the following purposes:

oo   Storing graphical information in a device independent format

oo   Transporting graphical information between systems with compatible 
    versions of GKS

oo   Transporting graphical information from one DEC GKS for VMS application to 
    another

oo   Storing accompanying nongraphical information

Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM) Output

DEC GKS for VMS provides support for storing information using the 
Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM). CGM is an approved ANSI standard 
format (ANS X3.122-1986). DEC GKS for VMS supports CGM output for both 
of the following formats:

    Clear Text Encoding - Graphical output data stored in the clear text 
    format is easily created, viewed and modified using a common text 
    editor. It is also a suitable format for transferring graphical 
    output data through networks that only support the transfer of a 
    text file.

    Character Encoding - Graphical output data is typically stored in 
    the character format to attain minimal file size. Data stored in 
    this format is particularly suitable for transfer through networks 
    which cannot support binary transfers.

Escape Feature

DEC GKS for VMS provides an escape mechanism which allows the 
application programmer to access device capabilities not defined in the 
GKS standard. For example, an ESCAPE function is defined that activates 
the hardcopy feature of a VT125 raster graphics terminal.
F
RO Tektronix is a registered trademark of Tektronix Incorporated.
RO PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.
TM LaserWriter is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.
TM HPGL is a trademark of Hewlett=Packard Company.
TM MPS-2000 is a trademark of Lasergraphics.
F

Character Sets

DEC GKS for VMS provides a series of stroke precision character fonts. 
These character fonts were digitized by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the 
Naval Surface Weapons Laboratory, and supplied to Digital by the 
National Bureau of Standards.

DEC GKS for VMS also provides text support for the native character 
set(s) of the supported graphical devices.

Language Binding

DEC GKS for VMS functions can be accessed by three sets of subroutine 
calls. DEC GKS for VMS provides an interface which conforms to the ANSI 
standard (ANS X3.124.1-1985) and ISO (DIS 8651/1) FORTRAN binding to 
GKS, a C binding interface which conforms to the proposed C language 
binding standard, as well as a VMS specific interface which follows the 
standard VMS calling conventions and is callable by many different 
languages.

The FORTRAN and C binding interfaces allow users to transport GKS 
applications which are written in FORTRAN or C across heterogeneous 
operating systems with conforming implementations of the FORTRAN or C 
bindings and GKS. Calls to the C language binding cannot be mixed with 
calls to the other language bindings in the same application.

Graphic Handlers

DEC GKS for VMS provides support for a wide variety of Digital and 
non-Digital graphics devices. In addition, DEC GKS for VMS provides the 
information necessary for users to develop their own graphic device 
handlers for devices that DEC GKS for VMS does not support. Device 
handlers can be developed in VAX FORTRAN, VAX C, and VAX PASCAL.

Output Functions

Segments - DEC GKS for VMS provides a set of functions for the creation, 
manipulation, and deletion of stored groups of output primitives called 
segments.

Polyline - Draws one or more connected line segments.

Polymarker - Draws one or more symbols which can mark significant points 
in a picture.

Text - Draws any character string. Characters can be displayed in a 
variety of fonts and orientations.

Fill area - Draws a polygonal area, which can be hollow or filled with a 
uniform color, a pattern, or a hatch style.

Cell array - Draws a rectangular image, specified by a two-dimensional 
array of picture elements.

Generalized Drawing Primitive (GDP) - Allows access to drawing 
capabilities of graphics devices which are not used by the functions 
listed above. For example, two GDPs commonly used are circles and arcs.

Attributes

Each output function has an associated set of attributes which control 
the appearance of the output. Attributes can be defined in groups, 
called bundles, or individually. For example, the following are 
attributes for polyline:

Line Type - Controls the style of a line, for example, lines can be 
dotted or dashed.

Line Width - Controls the width of the line.

Line Color - Color selection is performed by selecting an index into a 
table containing the red, green, and blue intensities required to define 
a particular color on color devices.

Input Functions

DEC GKS for VMS supports synchronous and asynchronous input. The 
following six classes of input data are supported.

oo   Locator - Returns a point within the user's world coordinate system

oo   Stroke - Returns a series of points within the user's world coordinate 
    system

oo   Valuator - Returns a single real value within a specified range

oo   Choice - Returns a single non-negative integer within a specified range

oo   String - Returns a string of characters

oo   Pick - Returns a segment name and pick identifier

Control Functions

DEC GKS for VMS provides special functions for management of the picture 
process, including GKS initialization and termination, the opening and 
closing of logical graphical devices, and the control of the display 
surface.

Inquiry Functions

In addition, DEC GKS for VMS provides a complete set of inquiry 
functions which aid in developing modular, device-independent programs.

DEC GKS for VMS Run-Time Only License

Since DEC GKS for VMS is a graphics application development tool, 
Digital provides a Run-Time Only License for running graphics 
applications that were developed utilizing DEC GKS for VMS graphics. 
This license is offered at a substantially reduced cost per CPU. The DEC 
GKS for VMS Run-Time License does not allow the user to create new 
applications, but rather allows execution of applications that were 
previously developed on a CPU where the full GKS product had been 
installed under a Single-Use License Option.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 26.20.09-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

VMS Operating System

For Workstations Running VWS:

VMS Operating System

VMS Workstation Software

For Workstations Running DECwindows:

VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
    versions of prerequisite/optional software and for information regarding 
    components of VMS DECwindows (SSA 26.20.09-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Development System

Software Licenses: QL-810A*-**
Software Media: QA-810A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-810AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-810A*-**

Run-Time Option

Software Licenses: QL-811A*-**
Software Media: QA-811A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-811A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses, 
    services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital 
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more 
information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your 
local Digital office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more 
information, contact your local Digital office.

 
SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
Warranty Addendum of this SPD.
 
March 1990
AE-BP36J-TE 

(R) The Digital Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment 
Corporation.

(TM)   VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver, VAXcluster, DECwindows, 
DEC GKS for VMS, ReGIS, VT, LN03, LA100, LA75, LA50, LA210, LVP16, LPS40 
and LN03R are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.
