 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2       SPD 29.38.05

     DESCRIPTION

     DEC PHIGS (Programmers Hierarchical Interactive Graphics System)
     for VMS is a sophisticated 3D graphics support system that con-
     trols the definition, modification, and display of hierarchical
     graphics data. DEC PHIGS for VMS manages the organization and
     display of graphical data stored in a conceptually centralized
     database.

     DEC PHIGS for VMS is Digital Equipment Corporation's implementa-
     tion of the 1988 ANSI/ISO PHIGS standard for three dimensional
     (3D) device-independent graphics. DEC PHIGS for VMS provides the
     standard FORTRAN and C language bindings as well as a language-
     independent (PHIGS$) binding. DEC PHIGS for VMS is supported on
     most Digital processors running the VMS Operating System.

     DEC PHIGS for VMS is device independent. That is, the same
     program can generate graphical output on different devices
     without modification to the source code. DEC PHIGS for VMS
     supports either DECwindows or VMS Workstation Software (VWS).
     DEC PHIGS for VMS also supports most of the hardcopy devices
     supported by DEC GKS, such as the HPGL[TM] series of plotters
     and Digital's compatible sixel devices, as well as all the
     terminals supported by DEC GKS.

     DEC PHIGS for VMS is a subroutine library packaged as a set
     of shareable images which the application program is linked
     against. The shareable images are activated at run-time as
     needed.


                                  DIGITAL                October 1990

                                                          AE-KX14F-TE

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05



     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides capabilities in addition to those
     specified in the PHIGS standard. Additional features include:

     o  Hidden line/hidden surface removal (HLHSR)

     o  Lighting, shading and depth cuing

     o  Additional primitives

        -  Circles

        -  Circular arcs

        -  Triangle Strips

        -  Quadrilateral Meshes

        -  Indexed Polygons

        -  Trimmed and Untrimmed NURBs (non-uniform rational B-
           splines)

     Some functionality from the PHIGS Standard has not been imple-
     mented in DEC PHIGS for VMS.

     Functionality Not Supported by DEC PHIGS for VMS:

     o  Modeling clip

     o  Metafiles

     o  Cell array

     o  Patterns

     o  Incremental spatial search

     Features

     Structure Storage

     DEC PHIGS for VMS maintains a graphical database known as struc-
     ture storage. Output primitives (polylines, polymarkers, etc.),
     attribute selection functions, labels, application data, name
     set specifications, transformation selections, and structure
     references are all structure elements that are placed in the

                                     2

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05



     structure store. These elements can be edited at any time by the
     application program. Graphical output is generated by a struc-
     ture traversal mechanism that interprets items in the structure
     store.

     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides an alternate traversal mechanism
     called immediate mode. Using immediate mode, PHIGS primitives
     can be rendered directly to the display surface without being
     placed in structure storage.






























                                     3

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05



     Viewing Operations

     DEC PHIGS for VMS allows the definition of objects in their
     own "modeling" coordinate systems. Transformation functions are
     provided to position these objects with respect to one another
     in a "world" coordinate system. World coordinates can have any
     scale. For example, one application might have a maximum range
     from 0 to 1000.0 while another application might limit the range
     from 0.01 to 0.1. DEC PHIGS for VMS automatically converts from
     the world coordinate systems into coordinates appropriate for
     the display device being used.

     The user can control multiple simultaneous views of the same
     object on separate display surfaces, as well as the position and
     size of the picture on the surface.

     In addition to the PHIGS standard viewing model, DEC PHIGS for
     VMS also provides alternate viewing functionality commonly known
     as "posting to views".

     Control Functions

     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides special functions for management of
     the picture process including PHIGS initialization and termi-
     nation, and functions that control the opening and closing of
     logical graphical devices.

     Output Functions

     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides functions for creating both 2D and 3D
     graphics elements in structure storage. Some of these functions
     allow lighting and shading information to be specified. These
     functions are:

     Polyline      -    Draws one or more connected line segments.

     Polymarker    -    Draws one or more symbols which can mark
                        significant points in a picture.

                                     4

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05




     Text          -    Draws a character string. Characters can be
                        displayed in a variety of fonts and orienta-
                        tions. Text size is affected by transforma-
                        tions.

     Fill Area     -    Draws a polygonal area which can be hollow or
                        filled with a uniform color or a hatch style.

     Fill Area     -    Draws a set of polygonal areas with holes
     Set                or disjoint regions that are treated as a
                        single entity. Control of edge attributes is
                        provided with this primitive.

     Annotation    -    Draws a character string in an X-Y plane (al-
     Text               ways readable). Characters can be displayed
     Relative           in a variety of fonts and orientations. Text
                        size is not affected by transformations, but
                        text position is affected.

     Circle and    -    Draws a circle or circular arc at the speci-
     Circular           fied position in two-dimensional form.
     Arc

     Triangle      -    Generates a sequence of triangles. Each tri-
     Strip              angle shares an edge with the next triangle
                        in the strip.

     Quadrilateral -    Generates a sequence of quadrilateral poly-
     Mesh               gons.

     Indexed       -    Generates a sequence of polygons that permits
     Polygons           PHIGS to take advantage of shared vertices.






                                     5

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05




     NURBs         -    Non-Uniform Rational B-spline. Generates a 3D
                        curve or surface from user-specified control
                        points and approximation criteria.

     Attributes

     Each output function has an associated set of attributes which
     control the appearance of the output. Attributes can be defined
     in groups (bundles) or individually. Attributes are:

     Line Type     -    The programmer can control the style of a
                        line. For example, lines can be dotted or
                        dashed.

     Line Width    -    In addition to line type, the width of the
                        line can be controlled.

     Color         -    Color selection is performed by selecting one
                        of the predefined colors or by specifying the
                        red, green, and blue intensities required to
                        define a particular color on color devices.

     Character     -    A specific font, as well as the character
     Attributes         spacing, height, angle, path, and alignment
                        can be specified.

     Input Functions

     DEC PHIGS for VMS supports synchronous and asynchronous input
     using any of the six different input methods listed below.

     Locator       -    Returns a point in the user's world coordi-
                        nate system.

     Stroke        -    Returns a series of points in the user's
                        world coordinate system.


                                     6

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05




     Valuator      -    Returns a single floating point value within
                        a specified range.

     Choice        -    Returns a single non-negative integer within
                        a specified range.

     String        -    Returns a string of characters.

     Pick          -    Returns a pick path which consists of a list
                        of structure identifier, pick identifier,
                        and element number for each level in the
                        structure network.

     DEC PHIGS for VMS includes the concept of name sets. Individual
     primitives can be associated with members of a name set that is
     used to determine eligibility for highlighting, visibility and
     picking. For example, in an architectural drawing, all steam
     pipes can be associated with one member of a name set and all
     water pipes with another. These sets of pipes can then be made
     invisible, pickable, or highlighted as a group.

     Inquiry Functions

     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides a complete set of inquiry functions
     which aid in developing modular, device-independent programs.

     PHIGS Archive Files

     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides an interface to archive files which
     allows for all or part of structure storage to be saved for
     later recall. Archive files can be used for the following pur-
     poses:

     o  Saving and restoring graphical information between sessions

     o  Transporting graphical information between DEC systems with
        compatible versions of DEC PHIGS

     o  Transporting graphical information from one DEC PHIGS appli-
        cation to another DEC PHIGS application

                                     7

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05



     o  Storing accompanying nongraphical information

     Character Fonts

     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides a series of stroke precision charac-
     ter fonts. These character fonts were digitized by Dr. Allen V.
     Hershey of the Naval Surface Weapons Laboratory and supplied to
     Digital by the National Bureau of Standards.

     Language Binding

     DEC PHIGS for VMS functions can be accessed by three sets of
     subroutine calls. DEC PHIGS for VMS provides an interface which
     conforms to the proposed ANSI and ISO standard FORTRAN and C
     bindings to PHIGS, as well as a DEC specified PHIGS$ interface
     which follows the standard VMS calling conventions, and is
     callable from many different languages.

     The FORTRAN and C binding interfaces allow users to transport
     PHIGS applications written in FORTRAN or C across heterogeneous
     operating systems with conforming implementations of PHIGS and
     the FORTRAN or C bindings. Calls to the C language binding
     cannot be mixed with calls to the other language bindings in
     the same application.

     Graphic Handlers

     DEC PHIGS for VMS provides support for a wide variety of Digital
     and non-Digital graphics devices. In addition, users can develop
     their own graphic device handlers for devices that Digital does
     not support via the DEC GKS 2D device handler interface. This is
     described in  Building a DEC GKS Device Handler System Manual
     which can be purchased separately (Order No. AA-MJ33A-TE).
     Device handlers can be developed in VAX FORTRAN, VAX C, and
     VAX PASCAL.

     DEC PHIGS Run-Time Only License


                                     8

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05



     Since DEC PHIGS for VMS is a graphics application development
     tool, Digital provides a Run-Time Only License for running
     graphics applications that were developed utilizing DEC PHIGS
     graphics. This license is offered at a substantially reduced
     cost per CPU. The DEC PHIGS Run-Time License does not allow the
     user to create new applications, but rather allows execution of
     applications that were previously developed on a CPU where the
     full PHIGS product has been installed under a Single-use License
     Option.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver or VAXstation configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 29.38.05-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

     For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

     VMS Operating System

     For Workstations Running VMS Workstation Software:

     VMS Operating System

     VMS Workstation Software













                                     9

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05



     For Workstations Running VMS DECwindows:

     VMS Operating System (and the necessary components of DECwin-
     dows)

     *  Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and re-
        quired versions of prerequisite software and for information
        regarding components of VMS DECwindows (SSA 29.38.05-x).

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Development Option

     Software Licenses: QL-0KBA*-**
     Software Media: QA-0KBA*-**
     Software Documentation: QA-0KBAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-0KBA*-**

     Run-Time Option

     Software Licenses: QL-VK1A*-**
     Software Media: QA-VK1A*-**
     Software Product Services: QT-VK1A*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity.

     License units for both the full development system and runtime
     system are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

                                    10

 


     DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.2                      SPD 29.38.05



     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility Manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]  Hewlett-Packard is a registered trademark of Hewlett-
          Packard Company.

     [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

     [R]  Tektronix and Tek are registered trademarks of Tektronix,
          Inc.

     [TM] Apple LaserWriter and Apple LaserWriter+ are trademarks of
          Apple Computer, Inc.

     [TM] HPGL is a trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.

     [TM] LASERGRAPHICS MPS-2000 is a trademark of LaserGraphics Inc.

     [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, DEC, DECwindows, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LN03S,
          LN03R, LPS40, LVP16, MicroVAX, ReGIS, VAX, VAXserver,
          VAXstation and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment
          Corporation.

                                    11
