 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0  SPD 33.09.00

           DESCRIPTION

           DECplan is an integrated time and project management tool
           designed to help users plan, track, schedule, and report on
           projects and meetings. DECplan is a client/server, DECwindows-
           based tool that provides a server and two clients, the DEC-
           plan client and the DECplan Time Manager client. DECplan Time
           Manager is a subset of the DECplan client. (See SPD 31.27.xx
           for details on the DECplan Time Manager client.) The DEC-
           plan server manages a single DECplan database of informa-
           tion delineated by a series of planners; project, personal,
           equipment, and locations. Multiple DECplan or DECplan Time
           Manager clients can connect to a single server. These clients,
           when connected to the DECplan server, allow users to share
           project information stored in a common database.

           DECplan Features

           Distributed and Interoperable Clients and Servers

           o  DECplan clients and servers can run and are able to in-
              teroperate with one another on a single hardware system
              or multiple systems running the VMS Operating System.

           Planners

           o  DECplan stores all information about a project, a per-
              son, a piece of equipment, or a location resource in a
              single place called a planner. DECplan supports single
              or multiple projects. Users can create planners for each
              project and set up dependencies on other planners. Given

                                    DIGITAL           September 1991

                                                         AE-PJ34A-TE

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


              the right security level, users can access and review mul-
              tiple planners of various types in a variety of DECplan
              views located on the user's local DECplan server. Cross-
              functional subprojects can be linked to facilitate enterprise-
              wide rollups of cost, effort, and dates.

           o  DECplan allows views, reports, and scheduling of multi-
              ple planners within one server. Cross-project dependen-
              cies and rollup activities can be performed across mul-
              tiple servers.

           Views

           o  DECplan allows users to enter and display planner data
              in many user-selectable views:

              -  The Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a graphical, hi-
                 erarchical tree structure that shows the organization
                 of tasks in the project.

              -  The Precedence Network (PN) allows users to assign the
                 order in which tasks and milestones are to be achieved.
                 The PN diagramming method supports Finish to Finish,
                 Start to Start, Finish to Start, Start to Finish, with
                 lag and overlap. It shows critical path, and, on a color
                 monitor, it can highlight the critical path in user-
                 defined colors. Supernode structures allow users to
                 collapse or expand user-defined collections of tasks
                 and milestones.

              -  Both the WBS and PN views have a navigation window that
                 allows users to zoom in and zoom out to traverse large
                 project diagrams that normally do not fit on one screen.
                 The navigation window is also used to scale the views,
                 which can then be used as the default printer output
                 size.





                                       2

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


              -  A table view is a spreadsheet-like view of data in a
                 planner. Table views can be used to view information
                 on resources, milestones, tasks, meetings, time charges,
                 and other objects in a planner. DECplan provides de-
                 fault table views as well as allows users the capa-
                 bility to modify and save custom table views.

              -  The Task Table is one type of table view that shows
                 a hierarchical breakdown of the work (tasks) in spread-
                 sheet form.

              -  Customized views, based on the standard views, can be
                 created and saved. In addition, users can select any
                 view to appear as a default view specific to a plan-
                 ner.

           o  DECplan has an integrated Annotation Editor that allows
              end users to customize the data presented for each task
              or milestone node in the WBS and PN graphical views. Shad-
              ing characteristics, the fields to display in or around
              the node, and the size of the node can all be defined by
              the user.

           Scheduling

           o  DECplan provides critical path scheduling, constrained
              resources scheduling, shared resources across multiple
              projects, uses actuals in calculations, and allows the
              user to enter specific constraints in running schedules.

           o  The user can ask the scheduler to use project and task
              priority in computing schedules. Once tasks have been as-
              signed and the scheduler has computed dates, the user can
              see scheduled tasks in the day view.

           o  Users can modify or create additional scheduling options
              and selectively key on specific fields to be used in the
              scheduling calculation.



                                       3

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           o  DECplan scheduling also allows replanning/rescheduling
              to allow for refinements and updates.

           Charts

           o  DECplan provides standard and customizable charts.

              -  The Gantt chart is a graphic display of task duration
                 and milestone occurrence in relation to time. Infor-
                 mation in the Gantt chart can be directly manipulated,
                 and color may be used on appropriate monitors. Users
                 can customize the data, select the time scale and re-
                 sources, and select the symbology when displaying on
                 the screen and in report output. The Gantt chart can
                 be used for one project or a series of multiple projects
                 in the same view.

              -  DECplan also provides Earned Value Charts, Effort Rate
                 Charts, Resource Loading Charts, Cost Performance and
                 Cost Variance Charts. Users may define what style of
                 chart to present, which project planners to use, what
                 colors to use, timescale, and dates to use in the charts.

           Cost Management

           o  Forecast and actual cost information can be displayed in
              Cost Charts. In addition, a series of Earned Value Charts
              can display ACWP, BCWS, BCWP, schedule and cost variances,
              and estimated time to complete.

           o  DECplan supports a variety of Earned Value progress cred-
              iting methods: full on start, full on finish, half-and-
              half, level of effort, and percentage variances.

           o  DECplan's cost management follows the DoD/DoE CPR and CSSR
              report structure (Std 7000.10). In addition to the graph-
              ical Earned Value Charts, a variety of tabular reports
              show cost information and allow users the flexibility of
              creating customized reports.


                                       4

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           Reports

           o  DECplan provides a user-defined report creation and lay-
              out tool, the Report Layout Editor (RLE). The RLE is used
              to define reports on any object stored in the database.
              Users select items from a class of objects to place in
              either the report title page, detail pages, or trailer
              pages to build customized reports. The RLE provides subto-
              taling of columns, control breaks, and other editing fea-
              tures such as bolding, centering, underlining, and align-
              ing fields using a grid. The user decides which project(s)
              data to include and prints the report.

           o  DECplan also provides approximately 30 standard reports
              covering all phases of the project management life cy-
              cle (planning, control, costs, replanning). Each of the
              standard reports can be used to build customized reports.

           Keywords, Sort, Filters

           o  DECplan keywords provide users with a user-defined al-
              phanumeric string to associate with tasks or other ob-
              jects in the database. Keywords can be used for a sort
              or filtering mechanism in views and reports.

           o  The sort feature is consistent across the tabular views
              and provides ascending or descending sorts, and sorts in
              groupings.

           o  Filtering allows users to selectively pull any data from
              the database for use in reports, charts, and task table
              views.

           o  The user can also build a selection expression filter to
              access and display data stored in one or more project plan-
              ners.





                                       5

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           Export/Import Feature

           o  DECplan allows users to import data using the DTIF CDA
              interchange format. Several CDA Extended converters ex-
              ist to allow data transformation from a non-DTIF format
              to DTIF, which can then be imported into the DECplan database.

           o  Users can also export an entire DECplan planner in DTIF
              format to other applications that accept DTIF, like DECde-
              cision. The exported planner can also be reimported into
              DECplan across servers.

           o  DECplan exports graphical and tabular views and reports
              in DDIF format, which is consistent with the data for-
              mat accepted by other DECwindows applications like DECwrite,
              DECwindows Mail, and DECpresent.

           DECplan Time Manager Client Features

           DECplan Time Manager is a subset of DECplan. All features
           listed here are included with DECplan.

           Day, Month, and Year Views

           o  Users reserve time and schedule tasks in their Time Man-
              ager Day view, which DECplan then uses to schedule and
              coordinate time across planners.

           o  A user can view the calendar in daily, monthly, or yearly
              views.

           o  The DECplan server scans the individual contributor's Time
              Manager calendar entries looking for available time to
              schedule task assignments.

           Meeting Scheduling, Free Time Scans

           o  Users can set up meetings with other DECplan Time Man-
              ager users by selecting duration of meeting, agenda, lo-
              cation, and performing a free time scan of those users'
              calendars to pick an agreeable meeting time.

                                       6

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           o  Users can also use distribution lists for groups or net-
              work mail addresses (sent only to non-DECplan users) to
              book meetings and conference rooms and send out agendas.

           o  Meetings can be repeatable in various integrals, for ex-
              ample, daily, bi-weekly, or monthly, or they can be in-
              dividually scheduled.

           To-do Table

           o  Time Manager users access the task table as a means to
              store action items and to-do lists. These tasks can be
              personal items or tasks negotiated and delegated as part
              of a task by the project manager using DECplan.

           o  The Time Manager users can view and manipulate their own
              data and can customize table rows and columns easily.

           Goals Tracking

           o  Users can define goals, associate a series of tasks re-
              quired to achieve the goal, set a priority and status for
              goals, and finally track the goal to completion using DEC-
              plan Time Manager.

           o  Users have the ability to modify goals as time progresses
              and priorities change.

           Alarms

           o  Users can set alarms or reminders on tasks and meetings
              and can select from a range of icons to depict graphi-
              cally the activity in their daily calendar view.

           o  Alarms are repeatable for successive meetings and only
              need to be set once.

           Negotiation



                                       7

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           o  DECplan provides for negotiation of task assignments and
              meeting assignments between two individuals: the orig-
              inator and the responder. This feature enables the orig-
              inator to propose assignments to other users (responders).
              The responder has the option of accepting or rejecting
              the assignment and providing a message in response to the
              proposal. Once an assignment is accepted, a copy of the
              original assignment is stored in the responder's plan-
              ner.

           o  DECplan also provides a mandate operation for situations
              where negotiation of an assignment is not desirable or
              appropriate.

           Time Charges

           o  Users can report work completed in their day view or from
              a table view by creating a Time Charge. Time Charges are
              rolled up into the expended effort of a task, thus show-
              ing progress made against that task. The individual up-
              dating status in this manner using Time Manager automat-
              ically updates the DECplan project management views.

           Help and Online Training

           o  In addition to the above features, DECplan provides con-
              text sensitive online Help to provide users with an un-
              derstanding of how to use DECplan and Time Manager.

           o  DECplan also provides modular, bookreader-delivered on-
              line training to complement the context sensitive Help.
              The training modules include a set of training planners
              and exercises.

           Conversion Utilities

           o  DECplan provides two conversion utilities. DECwindows Cal-
              endar users can convert their personal calendar database
              to the DECplan database. Also, VAX Project Manager users
              are provided with a utility to convert their database to
              DECplan. These utilities are included with DECplan.

                                       8

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 33.09.00-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For the DECplan Server:

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS DECwindows

           o  RDB Run-Time

           o  CDA Extended Converter Library (SSA 25.F7.xx-x)

           Note: Installing the CDA Extended Converter library is re-
           quired when customers require the Optional Software prod-
           uct for software cost estimation, COSTAR[TM] for VMS Sys-
           tems, a product of Softstar Inc.

           The RDB Run-Time license is included as part of the VMS Op-
           erating System. Customers must install RDB Version 4.0 where
           the DECplan Server software is located as a prerequisite to
           running the DECplan and DECplan Time Manager Client prod-
           ucts. The DECplan client software does not require RDB Run-
           Time services.

           For the DECplan Client and DECplan Time Manager Client:

           For Workstations Running DECwindows:

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS DECwindows

           For Personal Computers Running PATHWORKS Client Software:

           o  PATHWORKS for VMS

                                       9

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           DECplan displays on all PCs supported by the PATHWORKS for
           VMS. In order to operate the DECplan or DECplan Time Man-
           ager DECwindows client interface efficiently on the PC, it
           must be either a 386- or 486-based PC with a minimum of 4MB
           of memory.

           Refer to PATHWORKS for VMS (SPD 30.50.xx) if the PATHWORKS
           for DOS software is to be used in a server/client environ-
           ment, PATHWORKS for OS/2® server software (SPD 55.24.xx) if
           the PATHWORKS for DOS software is to be used in a server/client
           environment, or VAXmate Services for MS-DOS® (SPD 55.09.xx)
           if the PATHWORKS for DOS software is to be used in a server
           /client environment.

           Support for the VMS Operating System is provided by PATH-
           WORKS for VMS (SPD 30.50.xx). Support for the PC DECwindows
           Display Facility requires VMS DECwindows Software or ULTRIX
           Worksystem Software.

           The PC DECwindows Display Facility requires additional ex-
           tended memory over and above the conventional, EMS, XMS mem-
           ory required by other PATHWORKS components.

           A minimum of 750KB of system memory must be free and acces-
           sible to the PC DECwindows Display Facility after config-
           uring the system. This memory may be made up of free con-
           ventional and extended memory.

           Depending on the number of DECwindows applications being dis-
           played and the memory requirements of each application, more
           memory may be required on the PC. Therefore, the user should
           test these types of configurations with PC DECwindows Dis-
           play Facility prior to production use.

           Because the PC DECwindows Display Facility includes its own
           extended memory manager on 80386 PCs, it will conflict with
           expanded memory managers that do not support Virtual Con-
           trol Program Interface (VCPI). The PC DECwindows Display Fa-
           cility may also conflict with other drivers using extended
           memory, such as disk caching programs and RAM drives, if their

                                      10

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           presence cannot be detected by the PC DECwindows extended
           memory manager.

           DECwindows and X applications that do not take into account
           the PC hardware characteristics (such as screen resolution,
           screen aspect ratios, keyboard layouts, and number of mouse
           buttons) may not function optimally with a PC as a display
           server.

           In addition to the supported VMS and ULTRIX DECwindows win-
           dow managers, Digital provides a VMS window manager designed
           specifically for PC screens that allows the user to move win-
           dows off the screen.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           DECplan Server

           Software Licenses: QL-YPBA*-**
           Software Media: QA-YPBA*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-YPBAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-YPBA*-**

           DECplan Client

           Software Licenses: QL-XC6A*-**
           Software Media: QA-YPBA*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-YPBAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-XC6A*-**












                                      11

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           DECplan Time Manager Client

           Software Licenses: QL-XC8A*-**
           Software Media: QA-YPBA*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-XC8AA-GZ (DECplan
              Time Manager only)
           Software Documentation: QA-YPBAA-GZ (DECplan
              and DECplan Time Manager client)
           Software Product Services: QT-XC8A*-**

           DECplan Time Manager Upgrade License to DECplan Client, VMS
           Systems

           Software Licenses: QL-XNVA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for the DECplan Server for VMS systems are al-
           located on an CPU-capacity basis.

           The DECplan client and the DECplan Time Manager client li-
           cense units are allocated on a User/Activity basis.





                                      12

 



           DECplan for VMS, Version 1.0                SPD 33.09.00


           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available. For more infor-
           mation, please contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®   MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpo-
               ration.

           ®   OS/2 is a registered trademark of International
               Business Machines Corporation.

           ®   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.

           [TM]COSTAR is a trademark of Softstar, Inc.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECdecision, DECnet, DEC-
               plan, DECpresent, DECstation, DECsystem, DECwindows,
               DECwrite, MicroVAX, PATHWORKS, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAX-
               cluster, VAXft, VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXstation, and
               VMS are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.






                                      13
