PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Vertical Forms Printing           SPD 31.26.00
               for VMS, Version 1.0 


DESCRIPTION

VAX Vertical Forms Printing for VMS (VFP) is an on-line software utility, 
designed for users wanting to take advantage of the Vertical Forms Unit (VFU) 
capabilities of the printers listed in the Systems Support Addendum (SSA 
31.26.00-x).  VFU controls the vertical motion of the paper enabling faster 
throughput.

VFP provides DCL-like commands to setup a generic VFU load file and to convert 
generic load and data files into device specific load and data files. 

A generic VFU load file describes the format of the page. The page format is 
described by specifying the line numbers and the channel numbers associated 
with the line. VFP provides commands to setup the page format and to save the 
page format information in a file called a generic load file. 

A generic data file contains the channel commands. Channel commands tell the 
printer what channel to use before printing the data. 

Both the load and data file need to be converted into device specific load and 
data files before sending these files to the printer. VFP provides commands to 
convert the load and data files into device specific load and data files. 

The user must send the device specific load file to the printer before printing 
the device specific data file. The contents of the device specific load file is 
stored in the VFU memory of the printer. When the printer receives the channel 
command from the device specific data file, it looks in the VFU memory for the 
specified channel. If the channel is found, the printer moves the paper to the 
specified line associated with the channel and then prints the data on that 
line.

Features

OPEN - Opens the existing generic load file.

SET - Sets the channels on the specified lines.

SET PAGE - Sets the number of lines per page.

REPLACE - Replaces the "old channel number" specified with a "new channel 
number" now being specified.

REMOVE - Removes the specified lines.

CLEAR - Clears the specified channels.

INSERT - Inserts the new lines.

EXIT - Exits out of VFP program.

QUIT - Exits out of VFP program.

SAVE - Saves the load information in a file.

SHOW - Displays the channel and line numbers.

CONVERT - Converts generic load and data file into device specific load and 
data files.

UNDO - Allows the user to undo the last command that modified the contents of 
the buffer.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 31.26.00-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System 

VAX COBOL or 

VAX FORTRAN 

*    Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.26.00-x) for 
     availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional 
     software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VZEA*-**
Software Media: QA-VZEAA-H*    
Software Documentation: QA-VZEAA-GZ
Software Services:  QT-VZEA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For more information on available licenses, 
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital 
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more 
information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your 
local Digital office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital.  For more 
information, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD.

The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation.
    
VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver and VMS are trademarks of 
Digital Equipment Corporation.

March 1990
AE-NY00A-TE


