3270 Terminal Option Software, Version 1.0                  SPD 25.G5.00

DESCRIPTION

The 3270 Terminal Option Software is the operational firmware that is 
down-line loaded to a CXM04-* communication option card for the DECserver 
550 Terminal Server only.  The 3270 Terminal Option Software allows 
supported 3270 type terminals attached to the CXM04 option card to 
interactively access host-based applications while at the same time 
continue operation with the IBM (R) host. This same ability is provided for 
Personal Computers (PCs), properly configured  with one of the supported 
packages which emulate 3270 type terminals.  The (actual or emulated) 3270 
type terminal appears to the VMS system as a VT220 type display. Due to the 
limitations of the 3270 device, not all VT220 features will operate. See 
the Restrictions section of this SPD for limitations.

The 3270 Terminal Option Software controls terminal port characteristics as 
well as the IBM session support. The 3270 user can have access to both 
service nodes (Hosts) and IBM host applications. A "hot-key" sequence 
"toggles" the user from the IBM session to the VMS session.  The 3270 
Terminal Option Software interprets VT220 escape sequences and translates 
them to 3270 coax commands that are sent to the IBM 3270 display.  The 
software also reads keystrokes and performs the reverse translation.

A Set-Up menu selection is also provided. The menu, similar to the VT220 
Set-Up menu, allows user access to define their terminal characteristics as 
needed. The 3270 Terminal Option Software is down-line loaded over the 
network from a Phase IV DECnet load host.

Communications

The 3270 Terminal option Software is designed to run on DIGITAL's CXM04-* 
hardware exclusively.

The CXM04 hardware option has eight coax synchronous line interfaces for 
connecting terminals and Cluster Control Units (CCUs) to the unit. 

Using the CXM04 hardware option, each port can be set up by the server 
manager to allow each terminal access to both DIGITAL and IBM services 
(dynamic mode) or as a single service to DIGITAL or IBM only.

The CXM04 hardware option is compatible with DIGITAL's DECserver 550 
Terminal Server. DECserver 500 systems that have installed the DSRVS-UA 
upgrade are not compatible with the CXM04-* hardware option.

Restrictions

The 3270 Terminal Option software has been designed to operate with certain 
IBM class displays. However, some restrictions/limitations do apply.

oo   Due to the limitation of the 3270 display, not all VT220 features will 
    operate.
 
oo   NON-IBM CUT type terminals/emulators are not supported.

oo   IBM 3270 DFT terminals are not supported.

oo   File transfers between PC's and VAX systems is not supported.

oo   "Hot-key" sequences between IBM sessions and VAX sessions should ONLY 
    be attempted when the 3270 display screen is not being updated. Hot-Key 
    sequences made during display screen updates MAY result in subsequent 
    display screens being incorrect. The 3270 terminal option software will 
    generate a message on the display if this occurs.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver or VAXstation configuration as specified in the 
System Support Addendum (SSA 25.G5.00-x).

A DECserver 550 Terminal Server and its associated VMS software is required 
to down-line load the 3270 Terminal Option Software.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

VMS Operating System, V5.0 - V5.2 

DECserver 500 VMS, V2.0

Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.G5.00-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VV9A*-**
Software Media: QA-VV9A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VV9AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VV9A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

License for this software is included with the purchase of the CXM04 
hardware.

The 3270 Terminal Option Software License applies to the CXM04-* on which 
the software runs, not the service host node CPU in the network.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This product does not provide support for the VMS License Management 
Facility. A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not required for 
installation or use of this version of the product.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty  for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD.

July 1989
AE-NJ52A-TE

