
PRODUCT NAME:  DEC CAPACITY PLANNER FOR VMS,             SPD 31.37.00
               (DECcp), Version 1.0
DESCRIPTION

DECcp is a capacity planning and management software product for 
VAX and VAXcluster systems.  DECcp collects, reduces, characterizes,
validates, and reports performance and workload data useful in 
performing capacity planning studies. DECcp models and sizes VAX and 
VAXcluster systems. DECcp is useful in predicting system performance 
based on projected workload, in optimizing workloads across CPUs, 
in sizing of system configurations, and in saturation analysis.   

                                                         
DECcp Collector Software provides:

^ A common interactive menu-driven interface for accessing and using
  the DECcp Collector functions.

^ A documented methodology describing how to use all the DECcp tools to 
  accomplish a wide variety of capacity planning tasks.

^ DECcp MONITOR, a module for collecting workload and performance data.  


DECcp Planner Software provides:

^ A common interactive menu driven interface for accessing and using
  the DECcp functions.

^ A documented methodology describing how to use all the DECcp tools to 
  accomplish a wide variety of capacity planning tasks.
 
^ DECcp MONITOR, a module for collecting workload and performance data.

^ Analysis and reporting tools that include:
  
     DECcp REDUCER for merging and reducing data from the MONITOR 
     into a form more suitable for analysis.

     DECcp CONFIGURATOR for cases where data cannot be collected.
     This tool allows interactive entry of resource requirements. 

     DECcp ANALYZER for categorizing the per-process information into
     workload groups.

     DECcp MODEL which employs capacity modeling techniques to predict 
     performance based on the configuration and workload supplied. 
     The workload and/or configuration may be interactively
     changed in order to predict performance according to various system 
     upgrade scenarios.
    
     DECcp REPORT which provides the report functions to carry out the
     workload characterization and model validation.



Features

Data Collection 

DECcp MONITOR collects VMS performance metrics for Memory, I/O, and CPU
resource consumption. The MONITOR also collects per-process interactive 
transaction counts, per-process interactive response time, per-process 
interactive think time, and per-process per-disk resource usage. The MONITOR
supports simultaneous data collection on all nodes, and simple creation of 
multiple MONITOR runs. Note that a DECcp Facility or DECcp Collector license 
is required for each node where data is collected.
        
Workload Analysis 

DECcp ANALYZER places user resource profiles in groups, a process known 
as workload characterization. ANALYZER supports the ability to classify 
by user and/or workload parameters. ANALYZER supports the use of 
workload dependent resource requirement parameters such as CPU time per 
transaction, number of disk I/O's per transaction, think time, working set 
size, and page faults; and the use of user identification parameters 
such as user name, account name, and uic.

Modeling

DECcp MODEL incorporates mathematical models to aid in answering performance 
questions about envisioned system configurations and workloads. MODEL
supports interactive mode and model modifications. MODEL supports the 
ability to predict the performance of time-sharing based system(s), 
transaction processing system(s), or a hybrid of both.  MODEL supports 
the ability to edit the system and disk configuration, user population, 
disk loads, class profiles, report the predicted performance metrics, and
the ability to save the model profile and restore the same.

Saturation Analysis

DECcp can be used in saturation analysis. When the system configuration and 
performance criterion or service level objective are known DECcp can 
provide how much workload the system can support.

Resource Optimization

In a VAXcluster, DECcp can aid in balancing the user workload across CPUs, 
disks, and HSCs to provide a uniform performance for all users in the same 
class. 

Configuration Sizing

DECcp can perform configuration sizing. Given workload and performance 
criterion, DECcp can estimate what is the required system configuration.
The DECcp CONFIGURATOR provides the user the ability to interactively enter 
the workload resource requirements when they are not directly obtainable by 
measurement.

Planning for Continued System Growth
		
DECcp can help answer questions such as:

    What is the effect of moving users between CPUs in a VAXcluster?
    What is the effect of adding/removing users in the system?
    What is the effect of adding/removing applications in the system? 
    What is the effect of clustering standalone systems?
    What is the effect of upgrading one or more CPUs in the cluster?
    What is the effect of adding/removing CPU(s) in a VAXcluster system?
    What is the effect of changing memory size in the system?
    What is the effect of adding disks and HSC to the system?
    What is the effect of shadowing disks?


HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 31.37.00-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS or MicroVMS Operating System
 
* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 31.37.00-x).  

ORDERING INFORMATION 

DECcp Planner 

Software License: QL-VWYA*-**
Software Media: QA-VWYA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VWYAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VWYA*-**  

DECcp Collector 

Software License: QL-VWZA*-**
Software Media: QA-VWZA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VWZAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VWZA*-**  

  * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available
    licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of 
DIGITAL's Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about 
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a cpu-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation
set. For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more   
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
Warranty Addendum of this SPD.


June 1989
AE-NE95A-TE





