PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 200, Version 3.0              SPD 27.53.04
               For VAX/VMS and MicroVMS 

DESCRIPTION

The DECserver 200 Terminal Server is a network terminal switch for Ethernet 
Local Area Networks. The DECserver 200 provides a convenient method to 
logically connect up to eight DIGITAL asynchronous terminals to one or more 
service nodes (hosts) on an Ethernet. Once the terminal is connected, a user 
can utilize application programs and utilities as though the terminal were 
directly connected to a host via a DZ11, DMF32, or DHU11 device, with a few 
exceptions. Thus, it may be possible to utilize the DECserver 200 to connect 
all terminals to service nodes in place of traditional interfaces, except for 
host console terminals. Remote connection via dial-in modems is fully 
supported.

The DECserver 200 also allows for VMS host-initiated connections to serial 
printers. A special print symbiont on VMS service nodes can initiate 
connections to serial printers connected to DECserver 200 ports. This allows 
the printers to be distributed throughout a facility and accessed transparently 
by service node users. Incoming host-initiated connect requests may be queued 
FIFO at the server.

The DECserver 200 also provides the capability to connect host systems that do 
not support the LAT protocol, DIGITAL personal computers, and dial-out modems 
directly to ports on the server. Interactive server users can issue commands to 
connect to services which are offered on such ports. Port-to-port connections 
on the same server are also supported.

The DECserver 200 implements the Local Area Transport (LAT) protocol for 
communication with service nodes that implement this protocol on the same 
Ethernet. This interface has been optimized for high terminal I/O performance 
over an Ethernet, while reducing host CPU cycles required to handle interrupts. 
Hence, under most I/O loading conditions, a significant performance gain may be 
realized by using the DECserver 200 versus direct terminal connections via 
DZ11s.

The DECserver 200 also implements and supports the Terminal Device/Session 
Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple sessions at the device level.  
The DECserver 200 provides the ability to communicate with devices which also 
implement this protocol, and assist in the management of multiple sessions for 
these devices. By implementing this protocol, the DECserver 200 can permit 
attached devices to maintain screen and keyboard context for multiple LAT 
sessions, as well as allow these devices to run multiple LAT sessions 
concurrently.

The DECserver 200 implements the ODL (On Demand Loading) font loading protocol 
which allows Asian terminals that implement the ODL protocol to communicate 
with a VMS host via a terminal server.  The Asian terminals will be able to 
request font definitions from a VMS host when connected to a DECserver 200.

Software that runs on the DECserver 200 is downline loaded over the network 
from a Phase IV DECnet load host. Terminal access using the DECserver 200 does 
not require DECnet running in the same service node; LAT uses the Ethernet 
addressing mechanism to transport terminal messages.  The DECserver 200 server 
software will operate with all DIGITAL service nodes which support the LAT 
protocol.

Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal sessions, automatic 
failover, and remote printer support can lead to greater user productivity.

For wide area network communications, terminal users can connect to a local 
service node running DECnet, where they can ``SET HOST'' to a remote system via 
the DECnet network terminal protocol. If this system has the requisite X.25 or 
SNA 3270 access routines, a terminal user could communicate to a remote SNA or 
X.25 host through the appropriate gateway and this intervening host. A 
DECserver 200 terminal user cannot communicate directly to remote hosts through 
DECnet Routers or X.25/SNA Gateways. Wide area network traffic will not provide 
the same high level of performance as local terminal connections, due to the 
additional DECnet and internet protocol overhead.

Features

Terminal Connection Management

Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical connection, 
called a session, to any service node that implements the LAT protocol on the 
same Ethernet LAN. This connection makes the terminal appear as if it were 
physically connected to the service node, and the terminal user can use 
standard system utilities and applications supported by that node. Each 
terminal connected to the server can connect to the same or a different service 
node on the Ethernet. Furthermore, several servers can be used to connect many 
terminals to one or more service nodes.

A service node can have one or more services that are offered to DECserver 200 
users. Services and nodes are identified by name. Users always connect to 
services, not to nodes, although often one of the service names will be the 
node name.

In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 200 sees each VAXcluster on the 
Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering a common service. Each 
cluster node may also offer a service whose name is equivalent to its node 
name. In this case, a terminal user can connect either to the cluster service 
or a service associated with a particular cluster node.

Non-LAT Host Support

The DECserver 200 can be used to provide logical terminal connections to hosts 
that do not implement the LAT protocol. In this type of configuration, the 
server becomes the Ethernet connection and protocol support for these hosts. 
This expands the LAT network accessibility to the terminal user to include LAT 
hosts directly connected to the same Ethernet and hosts connected to the LAT 
network via the DECserver 200.

A host that supports XON/XOFF, ASCII standards and EIA RS-232-C/CCITT V.24/V.28 
interfaces can be connected to the DECserver 200. This provides the terminal 
user with a transparent connection to the non-LAT host. It is strongly 
recommended that server port and the host side port utilize modem control 
signals to automatically signal the host upon session disconnection.

In this configuration, there is a one-to-one correspondence between the port on 
a DECserver 200 and the connection on the host. The server manager assigns 
service names to individual ports or groups of ports that connect the host 
interface to the server.

Load Balancing

When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the connection is 
determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process the server uses when 
more than one node offers the same service. Service nodes do not have to be 
configured in a cluster in order for load balancing to be used. Service nodes 
with the same names may be running different operating systems. Using the load 
balancing process, the server connects to the node with the highest rating for 
the service desired. This rating is based on the current loading on the nodes 
that offer the service.

Multiple Sessions

The DECserver 200 allows each user to establish and maintain up to 8 sessions 
to one or more service nodes, up to a maximum of 64 per DECserver 200. Only one 
session per user can be active at a time. Through simple switching commands, 
the user can access the different sessions without repeating a login dialog 
each time. Some operating systems may impose limits on the number of LAT 
sessions such a host will support. 

Multiple Session Management

The DECserver 200 server allows direct communication with devices which support 
the TD/SMP protocol.  This protocol provides the ability for the attached 
device to maintain screen and keyboard context for the multiple LAT sessions 
which the DECserver 200 provides.  By implementing the ability to directly 
communicate with this protocol to the attached device, the DECserver 200 can 
now assist in the management of context of these multiple sessions, as well as 
allow for simultaneous output to multiple LAT sessions being maintained by the 
device.

Outbound Connection Queues

If a terminal user requests a connection to a server, and the requested service 
is currently in use, the terminal server users may opt to have the connection 
requested queued to the remote service.  This feature will happen automatically 
whenever a connection fails for this reason if the user's port has been 
appropriately configured.  The connection request is queued at the service node 
end and is processed first-in/first-out until such time as the user's 
connection request can be completed.  This feature assists in the fair 
management of limited network resources.  Once queued for connection, the user 
also has the option to cancel the queue entry and proceed with other sessions.

Welcome Identification

The DECserver 200 server standard welcome banner which includes terminal server 
type, version number, internal baselevel, and protocol version number is issued 
whenever a user successfully logs in to the server.  The server will also print 
a server manager settable identification string.   This can be useful for 
automatic server identification, or for small daily messages used for 
communication with the terminal server users.

Local Mode and Service Mode

For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver 200 is identical 
to that the user would experience if attached directly to the service node. 
When operating in this mode, the user is said to be in Service Mode. 
Occasionally, such as during connection establishment, the user interacts 
directly with the DECserver 200. When operating in this mode, the user is in 
Local Mode.

In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by DECserver 200 as 
commands to be performed by the server. The local mode prompt can be modified 
by a privileged command and can be changed from LOCAL> to any printable 
characters up to 16 characters.

Additional commands and displays to support the features available with the 
TD/SMP protocol are usable in Local Mode.  These commands will be used to 
enable or disable server recognition of the TD/SMP commands.

Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, nonprivileged 
and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the Server Manager to control the 
environment of the server and the terminal users. Access to this mode is 
password protected. Nonprivileged commands allow the terminal user to control 
their service sessions, set their terminal characteristics and show server 
information. The Server Manager can set the server to secure mode on a 
per-terminal basis which further limits the commands and displays of services 
and nodes that users can enter, to only those which directly relate to the 
user's own terminal.

The Server Manager environment is a logical extension of the user environment. 
The Server Manager is treated as a server user with a privileged status. The 
Server Manager sets a terminal to this status using a command which requires a 
password. This privileged status allows the Server Manager to enter commands 
not normally available to server users. These commands set server 
characteristics, provide control over server port usage, and provide the 
ability to control the user's access to the server and network services.

In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected service 
node with several exceptions. One exception, called the local switch character, 
allows the user to enter Local Mode from Service Mode. The <BREAK> key may also 
be used for this function. Other exceptions, called the forward and backward 
switch characters, allow the user to switch between sessions without the need 
to enter local mode. The switch characters are disabled by default but may be 
enabled by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally but 
flow control using these characters can be disabled.

Autoconnection

Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user terminal to a 
service node when connection failures occur or upon user login to the server. 
In conjunction with this function, a dedicated or preferred service can be 
specified for each terminal user.

If a dedicated service is specified, the DECserver 200 will attempt to connect 
to that service when a character is typed on the terminal keyboard or when an 
existing connection fails. In dedicated service mode, only one session is 
available. As this mode is designed to simulate a direct terminal connection, 
no local mode commands or messages are available to the terminal user. Ports 
with dedicated service can be automatically logged out of the server when the 
user logs out of the service node. 

If a preferred service is specified, the DECserver 200 will attempt to connect 
to that service as with the dedicated service mode of operation. However, the 
terminal user can enter local mode and establish other sessions.

Automatic Session Failover

If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a connection to a 
service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user to another service 
node offering the same service.  The user does not have to be already connected 
to that service node. Furthermore, the user's context at the time of failure is 
not automatically restored and login to the new service is required.

Groups

Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one or more 
groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 0 - 255. Groups allow an 
easy means of subdividing the network into what appears to be many smaller 
networks. A terminal user is only aware of the services that are offered by 
nodes in the same group(s).

The Server Manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a terminal is a 
member. The authorized groups define the set of services that the user is 
allowed to access. In addition, a user can further restrict access to services 
by disabling some of the authorized groups using a non-privileged group 
command. The user-settable group codes are a subset of the authorized groups.

Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view is 
mainly for user convenience and, although it also provides a form of security, 
it is not intended to be the primary form of access authorization or system 
security for a node.

Security

The DECserver 200 provides functions which enhance security features already 
available in the service nodes.  DECserver 200 security includes the ability to 
lock a terminal's keyboard from other users, optional login protection, and 
nonprivileged local mode of operation as a default.

A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the user to 
leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of security violations. 
When a terminal is locked, all input from the terminal is ignored until the 
lock password is re-entered. The lock feature may be disabled by the Server 
Manager.

Each terminal port can be set to operate in a secure mode which causes all 
commands that relate to other users to be disabled for that port. 

Login passwords can be enabled on a per-line basis by the server manager. If 
enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to access server 
functions.

DECserver 200 users normally have access to the nonprivileged local mode. In 
this mode, users may only issue commands that affect their own terminal 
environment. The server has a privileged mode for server manager's use. The 
mode is password protected.

Online HELP Facility

A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP command 
provides information on the correct syntax and details about each command. In 
addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users to quickly learn the basics 
of DECserver 200 operation. Tutorial HELP may be entered upon logging into the 
server.

Directory Service

Any DECserver 200 user can obtain a directory of services available to that 
user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the user is not 
authorized will not be displayed.


Permanent Characteristics

The DECserver 200 maintains permanent characteristics in non-volatile memory 
which is retained even when the power is disconnected. Permanent 
characteristics are maintained for service and server parameters as well as 
per-port parameters. Permanent characteristics can be reset to factory defaults 
by pressing the software reset button on the hardware unit while plugging in 
the power cord. 

Port Characteristics Configuration

Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be displayed 
by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively from their terminal. Many of the 
characteristics may be set-up by the user, but certain characteristics are 
privileged and may only be changed by the Server Manager.

Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed, character size, 
group codes, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, modem and password 
protection.

Port Access

A port on a DECserver 200 may be set up in different ways depending on the 
device attached to the port and its intended use. DECserver 200 supports 
EIA-RS-232-C and DECconnect asynchronous devices operating at speeds up to 
19.2K bps.

Port access is the characteristic which determines how a port may access or be 
accessed by interactive users and service nodes. 

oo Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the 
  device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to 
  CONNECT to LAT services. This type of access is also used for dial-in 
  modems.

oo Access Remote - Designed for applications-driven devices such as 
  asynchronous printers which are allocated by a service node process. 
  This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by multiple 
  service nodes. This type of access is also used for connections to 
  dial-out modems, and non-LAT host systems.

oo Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal computers or 
  printers with keyboards) which require both Local and Remote access. 

oo Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable the use 
  of a port. 

With printer support capabilities, the setup procedure of remote printers 
needs to be done once and is automatically reconfigured on system 
startup. The particular server port must be configured for remote access 
and set up to match the characteristics of the printer. The system 
startup command file must be modified to call the two command files 
provided with the service node software. Finally, the command files 
themselves must be customized to reflect the environment of their node. 
The server can optionally queue remote connects if these connects cannot 
be satisfied immediately. This queue management can be enabled for the 
server by the server manager. Note that this is a connection queue only. 

Terminal Operation

The DECserver 200 software supports the simultaneous operation of up to 
eight asynchronous devices at speeds from 75 bps to 19.2K bps. The 
software also supports:

oo Full modem control support (DECserver 200/MC only)

oo Data leads only support

oo XON/XOFF flow control

oo CTS/RTS and DSR/DTR flow control (DECserver 200/MC only)

oo Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

oo Modem fallback features (DECserver 200/MC only)

oo Block Mode transfers

oo Automatic line speed detection

oo DIGITAL personal computer file transfer

oo Data transparency mode

oo Ability to pass break character and error notification

oo Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP.

Server Management

Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server 
operation. The Server Manager in privileged mode can set up server 
identification information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the 
operating characteristics of the server. The Server Manager can also 
assign service names to groups of one or more ports which are connected 
to non-LAT hosts or modems. Troubleshooting facilities include diagnostic 
tests, a remote console feature, and online statistics.

A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by 
looping messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware 
interface at the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can execute 
a command to transmit test data to their terminal, or the server manager 
can send test data to any terminal.

The capability also exists for the server manager to test a service 
connection by sending data from the initiating port to the service node 
and back again. The data is then compared and any discrepancies reported. 
At the service node, the data can be looped back by the LAT protocol, or 
internally or externally at the service port. This feature is supported 
only by DECserver 200 service nodes; VMS service nodes do not support 
this service loopback capability.

The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These include 
the following: Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol statistics, 
and port error statistics. These data can be displayed and zeroed by the 
Server Manager. Server parameters that can be modified and displayed 
include the server identification, circuit timer, session limits, and 
login limits.

Remote Server Management

The DECserver 200 implements the console carrier feature which enables 
access to the DECserver 200 local mode from a Phase IV DECnet host on the 
same LAN. With the exception of remote console port configuration, the 
entire local mode user interface is accessible to the remote console 
carrier user. This includes the privileged commands, if the user knows 
the server's privileged password. This capability allows centralized 
server management and remote server diagnosis.

Communications

DECserver 200 software is designed to run on DECserver 200 hardware 
exclusively which includes an Ethernet interface for connection to an 
Ethernet transceiver cable. 

The DECserver 200/MC has eight EIA RS-232-C/CCITT V.24 asynchronous line 
interfaces for connecting terminals to the unit. 

The DECserver 200/DL has a single 36 pin DECconnect connector for 8 
ports.

On the DECserver 200/MC, each port on the server can be set up by the 
Server Manager to operate using full-duplex modem control. The DECserver 
200/MC is compatible with DIGITAL's family of modems and with Bell 100 
and 200 series modems and their equivalents. A BREAK feature is available 
and can be set on a per-port basis. This allows the DECserver 200/MC to 
force a break condition on connections to host interfaces. BREAK can also 
be passed through from a terminal connected on the server to the non-LAT 
host connected on the server.

DECserver 200 Operation

The DECserver 200 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary maintenance 
operation protocols for downline loading DECserver 200 software from a 
Phase IV DECnet load host over the Ethernet into server memory. All 
self-test diagnostics are in DECserver ROM, so downline loading is not a 
precondition for DECserver self-test. In the event of a bugcheck caused 
by a fatal error, the unit will normally attempt to upline dump server 
memory to a DECENT Phase IV host. Following this, the unit will 
automatically initialize itself and invoke a downline load.

DECserver 200 Configuration and Performance

The process of configuring the DECserver 200 is based primarily on 
tradeoffs of cost and performance within the realm of satisfying user 
application requirements. Network applications will range from low-speed, 
low-cost situations (e.g. connecting remote terminals through low-speed 
modems) to those of relatively high performance (e.g., connecting 
high-speed local terminals to local hosts within a local area network or 
connecting to non-LAT systems). The performance of a given server is a 
function of the expected network traffic, the load on hosts to which 
terminals are connected, and  resultant processing pursuant to the 
dedicated function of the unit. Thus performance depends on several 
factors:

oo Number of terminals

oo Number of host systems with active connections to the server

oo Number of active connections to non-LAT hosts

oo Terminal speeds

oo Terminal user applications

oo Number and size of host buffers

oo Terminal workload

The DECserver can sustain an aggregate character throughput of over 11520 
characters per second. This is equivalent to running four ports at 19200 
bits per second, and four at 9600 bps.

In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a DIGITAL 
software specialist should perform a level of application analysis which 
addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data throughput cannot be 
calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line speed, since 
many factors already discussed in this section may reduce the actual 
throughput.

Restrictions on DECserver 200 Usage

While terminal connections using the DECserver 200 have been designed to 
simulate direct terminal connections as much as possible, a few 
differences necessarily exist because of the nature of the product.  
Under most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by terminal 
users or service node application programs. However, applications which 
are directly dependent on the following functions may not operate as with 
a direct connection:

oo Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed, 
  character size and parity by manipulating system data structures

oo Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typically 
  less than 200 ms) to operate

oo Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the service 
  node

oo Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device 
  names
 
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 27.53.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System
DECnet-VAX

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 26.53.04-x).

Refer to the following SPDs for information on other supported DECserver 
200 systems:

DECserver 200 for RSX-11M-PLUS and Micro/RSX (SPD 15.72.xx)
DECserver 200 for ULTRIX-32 (SPD 27.54.xx)

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VCBA*-**
Software Media:  QA-VCBA*-H*
Software Documentation:  QA-VCBAA-GZ
Software Product Services:  QT-VCBA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

The DECserver 200 software license applies to the DECserver 200 on which 
the server software runs, not to service host node CPUs in the network.

This product does not provide support for the VMS License Management 
Facility.  A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not required for 
installation or use of this version of the product.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD.

May 1989
AE-JC42E-TE

