
PRODUCT NAME: DECserver 500 for VAX/VMS and MicroVMS, 
              Version 2.0                                     SPD 26.97.02
              		       

DESCRIPTION

The DECserver 500 series server is an Ethernet Communications Server for 
Ethernet Local Area Networks (LANs). The DECserver 500 series server can 
provide up to 128 EIA-423-A or 64 RS-232 asynchronous port connections to 
DIGITAL asynchronous terminals. Both RS-232, via the 8 port CXY08 
communication option card, and EIA-423-A, via the 16 port CXA16 communication 
option card, and EIA-422 16 port CXB16 communication option card can be mixed 
together in any combination from two to eight cards in one server.  The DECserver 
500 series server provides a convenient method to logically connect up to 128 
DIGITAL asynchronous terminals to one or more service nodes (hosts) on an 
Ethernet. Once the terminal is connected, a user can utilize application 
programs and utilities as though the terminal was directly connected to a host 
via a DZ11, DMF32, or DHU11 device, with a few exceptions. Thus, it may be 
possible to utilize the DECserver 500 series server to connect all terminals 
to service nodes in place of traditional interfaces, except for host console 
terminals. Remote connection via dial-in modems is fully supported.  See the 
Restrictions section for limitations.

The DECserver 550 server provides the additional support of IBM(r) 3270 CUT type 
displays through the use of the CXM04 option card(refer to the product 
description SPD 25.G5.xx for more details on the CXM04).

The DECserver 500 series server also allows for VMS host-initiated connections 
to asynchronous printers. A special print symbiont on VMS service nodes can 
initiate connections to asynchronous printers connected to DECserver 
500 series ports. This allows the printers to be distributed throughout a 
facility and accessed transparently by service node users. Incoming 
host-initiated connect requests may be queued FIFO at the server.  This 
special print symbiont is included in the software distribution kits for VMS
V4.6 to V5.2.

The DECserver 500 series server also provides the capability to connect host 
systems that do not support the LAT protocol, DIGITAL personal computers, and
dial-out modems directly to ports on the server. Interactive server users 
can issue commands to connect to services which are offered on such ports. 
Port-to-port connections on the same server are also supported.

The DECserver 500 series server implements the Local Area Transport (LAT) 
protocol for communication with service nodes that implement this protocol on 
the same Ethernet. This interface has been optimized for high terminal I/O 
performance over an Ethernet, while reducing host CPU cycles required to 
handle interrupts. Hence, under most I/O loading conditions, a significant 
performance gain may be realized by using the DECserver 500 series servers 
versus direct terminal connections.

The DECserver 500 series server implements the On-Demand Loading (ODL) font 
loading protocol which allows Asian terminals that implement the ODL protocol 
to communicate with a suitable VMS host via a terminal server.  The Asian terminals 
will be able to request font definitions from a suitable VMS host when connected to a 
DECserver 500 series server.

The DECserver 500 series server also implements and supports the Terminal 
Device/Session Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple sessions at the 
device level. The DECserver 500 series servers provide the ability to 
communicate with devices which also implement this protocol, and assist in the 
management of multiple sessions for these devices. By implementing this 
protocol, the DECserver 500 series servers can permit attached devices to 
maintain screen and keyboard context for multiple LAT sessions, as well as 
allow these devices to run multiple LAT sessions concurrently.

Software that runs on the DECserver 500 series server is downline loaded over 
the network from a Phase IV DECnet load host. Terminal access using the 
DECserver 500 series server does not require DECnet running in the same 
service node; LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism to transport terminal 
messages. 

For wide area network (WAN) communications, terminal users can connect to a
LAN service node running DECnet, where they can "SET HOST" to a remote system 
via the DECnet network terminal protocol. If this system has the prerequisite 
X.29 or SNA 3270 access routines, a terminal user could communicate 
to a remote SNA or X.25 host through the appropriate gateway and this 
intervening host. A DECserver 500 series terminal user cannot communicate 
directly to remote hosts through DECnet Routers or X.25/SNA Gateways. Wide 
area network traffic will not provide the same high level of performance as 
local terminal connections, due to the additional DECnet and internet 
protocol overhead.

Features

Terminal Connection Management

Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical 
connection, called a session, to any service node that implements the 
LAT protocol on the same Ethernet LAN. This connection makes the terminal 
appear as if it were physically connected to the service node, and the 
terminal user can use standard system utilities and applications supported 
by that node. Each terminal connected to the server can connect to the same 
or a different service node on the Ethernet. Furthermore, several servers 
can be used to connect many terminals to one or more service nodes.

A service node can have one or more services that are offered to DECserver 
500 series server users. Services and nodes are identified by name. Users 
usually connect to services, not to nodes, although often one of the service 
names will be the node name.  Users can optionally specify a node and/or a port
name when they connect to a service.

In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 500 series server sees each 
VAXcluster on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering a common 
service. Each cluster node may also offer a service whose name is equivalent 
to its node name. In this case, a terminal user can connect either to the 
cluster service or a service associated with a particular cluster node.


Non-LAT Host Support

The DECserver 500 series server can be used to provide logical terminal 
connections to hosts that do not implement the LAT protocol. In this type of 
configuration, the server becomes the Ethernet connection and protocol support 
for these hosts. This expands the LAT network accessibility to the terminal 
user to include LAT hosts directly connected to the same Ethernet and hosts 
connected to the LAT network via the DECserver 500 series server.  Non-LAT 
host support should be implemented through the use of the CXY08 hardware 
option only.

A host that supports XON/XOFF, ASCII standards and EIA RS-232-C/CCITT 
V.24/V.28 interfaces can be connected to the DECserver 500 series server. This 
provides the terminal user with a transparent connection to the non-LAT host.
It is strongly recommended that server port and the host side port utilize 
modem control signals to automatically signal the host upon session 
disconnection.  In this application the server port appears to the host as a
dial-in modem.  However, hosts that require more than one transition of the
RING signal are not supported.

In this configuration, there is a one-to-one correspondence between the 
port on a DECserver 500 series server and the connection on the host. The 
server manager assigns service names to individual ports or groups of ports 
that connect the host interface to the server.

Load Balancing

When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the connection 
is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process the server 
uses when more than one node offers the same service. Service nodes do not 
have to be configured in a cluster in order for load balancing to be used. 
Service nodes with the same names may be running different operating systems.
Using the load balancing process, the server connects to the node
with the highest rating for the service desired. This rating is based on 
the current loading on the nodes that offer the service.


Multiple Sessions

The DECserver 500 series server allows a single user to establish and maintain 
up to eight sessions to one or more service nodes (up to 64), up to a maximum of 
512 sessions per DECserver 550 unit.  The DECserver 500 supports up to 256 
sessions. The DECserver 500 when equipped with the optional upgrade will support
up to a maximum of 512 sessions. Only one session can be active at a time on each
port.  Through simple switching commands, the user can access the different 
sessions without repeating a login dialog each time.  The number of simultaneous
LAT sessions supported by a service node depends on the type of operating system
running on that node.


Multiple Session Management

The DECserver 500 series servers allow direct communication with devices which 
support TD/SMP protocol. This protocol provides the ability for the attached 
device to maintain screen and keyboard context for the multiple LAT sessions 
which the DECserver 500 series servers provide. By implementing the ability to 
directly communicate with this protocol to the attached device, the DECserver 
500 series servers can now assist in the management of context of these 
multiple sessions, as well as allow for simultaneous output to multiple LAT 
sessions being maintained by the device.


Outbound Connection Queues

If a terminal user requests a connection to a server, and the requested 
service is currently in use, the terminal server may opt to have the 
connection request queued to the remote service. This feature will happen 
automatically whenever a connection fails for this reason if the user's port 
has been appropriately configured. The connection request is queued at the 
service node end and is processed first-in/first-out until such time as the 
user's connection request can be completed. This feature assists in the fair 
management of limited resources. Once queued for connection, the user also has 
the option to cancel the queue entry and proceed with other sessions.



Welcome Identification

The DECserver 500 series servers standard welcome banner which includes 
terminal server type, version number, and protocol version number is issued 
whenever a user successfully logs in to the server. The server will also print 
a server manager settable identification string. This can be useful for 
automatic server identification, or for small daily messages used for 
communication with the terminal server users.


Local Mode and Service Mode

For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver 500 series server 
is identical to that the user would experience if attached directly to the 
service node. When operating in this mode, the user is said to be in 
Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during connection establishment, the 
user interacts directly with the DECserver 500 series unit. When operating in 
this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by DECserver 500 
software as commands to be performed by the server. 

Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, nonprivileged 
and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the server manager to control the 
environment of the server and the terminal users. Access to this mode is 
password protected. Nonprivileged commands allow the terminal user to 
control their service sessions, set their terminal characteristics and show 
server information. The server manager can set the server to secure mode on 
a per-terminal basis which further limits the commands users can enter to 
only those which directly relate to the user's own terminal.

The server manager environment is a logical extension of the user 
environment. The server manager is treated as a server user with a 
privileged status. The server manager sets a terminal to this status using 
a command which requires a password. This privileged status allows the 
server manager to enter commands not normally available to server users. 
These commands set server characteristics, provide control over server port 
usage, and provide the ability to control the user's access to the server 
and network services.

The LIMITED VIEW port characteristic is a mechanism by which the server manager can prevent certain ports from executing
SHOW NODES and SHOW SERVICES commands.



In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected 
service node with several exceptions. One exception, called the local 
switch character, allows the user to enter Local Mode from Service Mode. 
The <BREAK> key may also be used for this function. Other exceptions, called 
the forward and backward switch characters, allow the user to switch between 
sessions without the need to enter local mode. The switch characters are 
disabled by default but may be enabled by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are 
normally interpreted locally but flow control using these characters can be 
disabled.


Autoconnection

Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user terminal to 
a service node when connection failures occur or upon user login to the 
server. In conjunction with this function, a dedicated or preferred service 
can be specified for each terminal user.  If a failure occurs, the server
will automatically try every 30 seconds to re-establish a connection to the
desired service.

If a dedicated service is specified for a port, the DECserver 500 series 
server will attempt to connect the port to that service when a character is 
typed on the terminal keyboard or when an existing connection fails. In 
dedicated service mode, only one session is available. As this mode is 
designed to simulate a direct terminal connection, no local mode commands or 
messages are available to the terminal user. 

If a preferred service is specified for a port, the DECserver 500 series 
server will attempt to connect the port to the service as with the dedicated 
service mode of operation.  However, the terminal user can enter local mode 
and establish other sessions.


Node/Database Improvements

With the increasing size of LAN's, servers on some networks may temporarily 
find themselves in the situation of having more nodes available to them than 
they can store in server memory. This feature will purge all unused
nodes and allow the server to update its node database eventually allowing
the user to connect to the desired service.


Automatic Session Failover

If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a connection to 
a service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user to another 
service node offering the same service.  The user does not have to be already 
connected to that service node. However, the user's context at the time 
of failure is not automatically restored and login to the new service is 
required.


Line Card Redundancy

This feature provides the server manager with the ability to redirect an 
active line card to a stand-by line card already installed in the server 
without bringing the server down.  There are a few restrictions associated 
with the Line Card Redundancy feature:

	^ Stand-by line cards must be previously defined using the Terminal 
          Server Configurator(TSC) or Terminal Server Manager(TSM).

	^ The physical stand-by line card must be present in the server at 
          initialization time.

	^ Source and target line cards must be of the same type.

	^ Once a stand-by card becomes active as a result of a MOVE command, 
          it can not go back to stand-by without reloading the server.

For security, the line card redundancy feature does not attempt to preserve 
any sessions that the source (failed) line card users may have had before the 
move.

Groups

Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one or more 
groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 0 - 255. Groups
allow an easy means of subdividing the network into what appears to 
be many smaller networks. A terminal user is only aware of the services 
that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).

The server manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a terminal 
is a member. The authorized groups define the set of services that the user 
is allowed to access. In addition, a user can further restrict access to 
services by disabling some of the authorized groups using a non-privileged
group command. The user-settable groups are a subset of the authorized
groups.

Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view 
is mainly for user convenience and, although it also provides a form of 
security, it is not intended to be the primary form of access authorization 
or system security for a node.  Groups can also be used by the server
manager to tune the server's usage of its available memory.


Security

The DECserver 500 software provides functions which enhance security features 
already available in the service nodes.  Security features include the ability 
to lock a terminal's keyboard from other users, optional login protection, and 
nonprivileged local mode of operation as a default.

A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the user to 
leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of security violations. 
When a terminal is locked, all input from the terminal is ignored until the 
lock password is re-entered. The lock feature may be disabled by the Server
Manager on a per-port basis or on a server wide basis.

Each terminal port can be set on the server to operate in a secure mode which 
causes all commands that relate to other users to be disabled for that port. 
The server manager can also define a unique password for each set of server
ports offered as a service.  This is useful for restricting access to devices
such as dial-out modems.

Login password protection can be enabled on a per-line basis by the Server 
Manager.  If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to access 
server functions.  The login password is changeable, but is a server wide
password.  
 
There is also a maintenance password for protecting unauthorized downline 
loads of the server or use of the Remote Console Facility (RCF) to remotely
manage the server.

The DSRLOGOUT feature can be set for any terminal and is used with the CXY08 
and BC22D, BC17D or BC22R cable to detect terminal power down and enact an
automatic port logout which disconnects all sessions established from that 
port. On modem controlled dial-in ports, the server will automatically 
disconnect an incoming call if the user does not successfully log in to the 
server within 60 seconds.

In Local Mode, DECserver 500 series users normally can use only the server's
nonprivileged commands.  In this mode, users may only issue commands that
affect their own terminal environment.  The server has a privileged mode for
the server manager's use.  This mode is password protected.

On-line HELP Facility

A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP command 
provides information on the correct syntax and details about each command. 
In addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users to quickly learn the 
basics of DECserver 500 operation. Tutorial HELP may be entered before logging
into the server by typing HELP at the username prompt.

A limited help characteristic is available. When this characteristic is enabled
by TSM/TSC an abbreviated help file will be loaded into the server freeing up 
more memory for  session/nodes.   When  enabled,  all  help requests  will 
result in the same abbreviated help screen, which lists the syntax of every 
server  command  available  to  the  user.   This characteristic  could  be 
enabled for DECserver 500's running with the KDJ11-SB  processor,  to increase
the   number   of   sessions/nodes obtainable.  Enabling LIMITED HELP on a 
DECserver 500 running with the KDJ11-SD processor will not result in any 
additional sessions/nodes.


Directory Service

Any suitable DECserver 500 series server user can obtain a directory of services 
available to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the 
user is not authorized will not be displayed. If limited view is enabled on 
the port, the user cannot perform a show service.

Permanent Characteristics

Each DECserver 500 series server has a unique software image on its downline 
load host. A database of permanent characteristics is kept within each image.  
These characteristics can be changed prior to downline load by the server 
manager or load host manager.   All permanent characteristics can be changed 
by using the Terminal Server Configurator (TSC) utility provided in the 
DECserver 500 software distribution kit.

TSC now supports  the  modification of CXM04 keyboard mapping
tables from within the TSC program.  Keyboard language table files are
provided with the 3270 Terminal Software Option layered product.  This
product  provides  the  firmware and keyboard tables needed to use the CXM04 
line card on the DECserver 550.

The keyboard table files, one for each  supported  keyboard  language,
are  used by the CXM04 firmware to translate IBM scan codes to DIGITAL
keys.  DIGITAL provides a default  mapping  which
is  described  in the 3270 Terminal Option User's Guide.  For example,
by default, the 3270 ATTN key maps to the DIGITAL VT220 BREAK (F5) key
on the 3178 Models C1 and C2 keyboards.


Port Characteristics Configuration

Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be 
displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively from their terminal. 
Many of the characteristics may be setup by the user, but certain 
characteristics are privileged and may only be changed by the server manager.

Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed, character 
size, group, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, modem and 
password protection.

Port Access

A port on a DECserver 500 series server may be set up in different ways 
depending on the device attached to the port and its intended use.  Port 
access is the characteristic which determines how a port may access or be 
accessed by interactive users and service nodes. 

^  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the device
   (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to CONNECT to LAT
   services. This type of access is also used for dial-in modems.

^  Access Remote - Designed for applications-driven devices such as
   asynchronous printers which are allocated by a service node process.
   This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by multiple
   service nodes. This type of access is also used for connections to 
   dial-out modems, and non-LAT host systems by interactive users.

^  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as dial-in/dial-out modems or
   printers with keyboards) which require both Local and Remote access but
   not simultaneously.

^  Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable the use of 
   a port. 

With printer support capabilities, the setup procedure of remote printers needs
to be done once and is automatically reconfigured on server and/or system 
startup. The particular server port must be configured for remote access and 
set up to match the characteristics of the printer. The system startup command
file must be modified to call the two command files provided with the service 
node software.  Finally, the command files themselves must be customized to 
reflect the environment of their node. The server can optionally queue remote 
connects if these connects cannot be satisfied immediately. This queue 
management can be enabled for the server by the server manager. Note that this 
is a connection queue only. 

Asynchronous Device Operation

The DECserver 500 software supports the simultaneous operation of up to 128 
asynchronous devices at speeds from 50 bps to 38.4K bps under specified
application conditions. The software also supports:

^  Full modem control support (with CXY08 hardware option only)

^  Data-leads-only support

^  XON/XOFF flow control

^  CTS/RTS and DSR/DTR flow control (with CXY08 hardware option only)

^  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

^  Block Mode transfers

^  Automatic line speed detection

^  DIGITAL personal computer file transfer and terminal emulation

^  Data transparency mode

^  Ability to pass BREAK condition and error notification

^  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP


Server Management

Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server operation. 
The server manager in privileged mode can set up server identification 
information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the operating 
characteristics of the server. The server manager can also assign service 
names to groups of one or more ports which are connected to non-LAT hosts 
or modems. Troubleshooting facilities include diagnostic tests, a remote 
console feature, online statistics and modem signal and flow control 
monitoring.

A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by looping 
messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware interface at 
the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can execute a command to 
transmit test data to their terminal.  The server manager can send test 
data to any terminal, optionally using internal or external loopback with
data comparison.

The capability also exists for the server manager to test a service connection
by sending data from the initiating port to the service node and back again. 
The data is then compared and any discrepancies reported. At the service node,
the data can be looped back by the LAT protocol, or internally or externally
at the service port. This feature is supported by the DECserver 500 series  
service nodes; VAX/VMS service nodes do not support this service loopback 
capability.

The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These include 
the following: Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol statistics, and 
port error statistics. This data can be displayed and zeroed by the server
manager. Server parameters that can be modified and displayed include the 
server identification, circuit timer, session limits and login limits. 


Remote Server Management

The DECserver 500 software implements the Maintenance Operations Protocol (MOP)
console carrier protocol which enables access to the DECserver 500 series 
server from a Phase IV DECnet host on the same LAN.  The entire local mode 
user interface is accessible to the remote management port user. This includes
the privileged commands, if the user knows the server's privileged password.
This capability allows centralized server management and remote server 
diagnosis.


Communications

DECserver 500 software is exclusively designed to run on DECserver 
500 series hardware which includes an Ethernet interface for connection to an 
Ethernet transceiver cable. 

The CXY08 hardware option has eight EIA RS-232-C/CCITT V.24 asynchronous line 
interfaces for connecting terminals to the unit. 

The CXB16 hardware option has sixteen EIA-422 asynchronous line interfaces for 
connecting terminals to the unit.

The CXA16 hardware option has sixteen DECconnect connections (EIA-423-A) for
connecting terminals to the unit.

The CXM04 hardware option has eight coax A 3270 synchronous line 
interfaces for connecting 3270 CUT mode devices and Cluster Controllers.

Using the CXY08 hardware option, each port can be set up by the server 
manager to operate using full-duplex modem control. The CXY08 hardware option
is compatible with DIGITAL's family of modems and with Bell 100 and 200 series 
modems and their equivalents. A BREAK feature is available and can be set on a 
per-port basis. This allows a BREAK condition to be passed through from a 
terminal connected on the server to the non-LAT host connected to a port on a 
DECserver 500 series server.


DECserver 500 Series Server Operation

The DECserver 500 series server provides the necessary Maintenance Operation 
Protocol boot ROM support for downline loading DECserver 500 software from a 
Phase IV DECnet load host over the Ethernet into server memory and also for 
upline dumping. All self-test diagnostics are in DECserver ROM, so downline 
loading is not a precondition for DECserver self-test. In the event of a 
bugcheck caused by a fatal error, the unit will normally attempt to upline 
dump server memory to a DECnet Phase IV host. Following this, the unit will 
automatically initialize itself and invoke a downline load.


DECserver 500 Series Server Configuration and Performance

The process of configuring the DECserver 500 series server is based primarily 
on tradeoffs of cost and performance within the realm of satisfying user 
application requirements. Network applications will range from low-speed, 
low-cost situations (e.g. connecting remote terminals through low-speed 
modems) to those of relatively high performance (e.g., connecting 
high-speed local terminals to local hosts within a local area network or 
connecting to non-LAT systems). The performance of a given server
is a function of the expected network traffic, the load on hosts to which 
terminals are connected, and  resultant processing pursuant to the 
dedicated function of the unit. Thus performance depends on several 
factors:

^  Number of terminals

^  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

^  Number of active connections to non-LAT hosts

^  Terminal speeds

^  Terminal user applications

^  Number and size of host buffers

^  Terminal workload

The DECserver 500 series server can sustain an aggregate user-data output 
throughput (from server to port devices of 173,000 characters per second using 
a 10 millisecond circuit timer. The DECserver can sustain an aggregate user-data input 
throughput (port device to server) of 16,500 characters per second using an 80
millisecond circuit timer.

In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a DIGITAL 
software specialist should perform a level of application analysis which 
addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data throughput cannot be 
calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line speed, since many 
factors already discussed in this section may reduce the actual throughput.

Restrictions on DECserver 500 Series Server Usage

While terminal connections using the DECserver 500 series terminal servers 
have been designed to simulate direct terminal connections as much as 
possible, a few differences necessarily exist because of the nature of the 
product.  Under most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by 
terminal users or service node application programs. However, applications 
which are directly dependent on the following functions may not operate as 
with a direct connection:

^  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed, 
   character size and parity by manipulating system data structures

^  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typically 
   less than 200 ms) to operate

^  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the service 
   node

^  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device
   names, or to obtain information about the name of the server and/or port

Applications that depend on certain physical device response times or do
their own modem signal handling are not supported.

There are two restrictions which should be noted;  for connections from the
server, the LAT device created has an unpredictable name and for host
initiated connections, application programming will not be supported.

The DECserver 500 terminal server does not support the CXM04 communications
option card.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configuration as specified in the 
System Support Addendum (SSA 26.97.02-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System 

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions
  of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 26.97.02-x).

Refer to the following SPDs for information on other supported DECserver 500 
series servers for RSX-11M-PLUS and Micro/RSX (SPD 18.53.02).

ORDERING INFORMATION 

Software Licenses:            QL-03KA9-AA
Software Media:               QA-03KAA-H*
Software Documentation:       QA-03KAA-GZ
Software Product Services     QT-03KA*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses, 
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

The DECserver 500 software license applies to the DECserver 500 series servers
on which the software runs, not the service host node CPU in the network.

This product does not provide support for the VMS License Management Facility.
A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not required for installation or use of 
this version of the product.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
Licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more information 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty  for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum
of this SPD.


July 1989
BH-KN88C-TE


