
PRODUCT NAME: VAX DY32, Version 3.0                		SPD 25.57.08
              DECdataway Local Area Network Software

DESCRIPTION

VAX DY32 is a software package that provides local area network communications 
for VMS host systems. It allows user application programs in a VMS
host to communicate with multidropped devices connected to the VMS host 
via the DECdataway.

VAX DY32 hosts control the DECdataway through the DECdataway controller 
driver. This driver provides a standard operating system interface to the 
DECdataway Controllers. Through it, the network software and other 
processes in the host can determine the status of each remote DECdataway 
device. It allows simultaneous requests to all addresses on the DECdataway, 
verifies the validity of the request and passes it to the DECdataway 
Controller. The DECdataway Controller driver treats each DECdataway address 
as a separate physical device unit. It also logs DECdataway errors, which 
are put in a file on the system disk and reported by a VMS utility.

The DECdataway Manager is the DECdataway housekeeping program. It loads the 
DECdataway driver, runs confidence tests on the controller, loads and starts 
the controller's microcode, and notifies the Automatic Reboot Facility when 
a remote DECdataway device first comes on-line and needs service. The 
DECdataway Manager runs during DY32 system start-up and whenever the 
DECdataway driver notifies it that conditions on the DECdataway require its 
attention.

Supported DECdataway devices include the DYT01 serial line interface, DYX02 
DECdataway optical interface and DECdataway intelligent subsystems. The
DECdataway intelligent subsystems include DYS50 DECdataway intelligent 
subsystems, DPM50 DECdataway I/O Subsystems, and DPM23 Programmable
DECdataway Subsystems.

DECdataway Serial Line Interface

The DYT01 DECdataway serial interface software includes a set of library 
procedures that enable an application programmer to communicate with devices 
connected to DYT01 terminal interfaces. The procedures are intended for use 
from high-level languages, and relieve the applications programmer of the 
details of the DECdataway and the DYT01 device protocol.

The library procedures fall into two types: data transfer or I/O functions,
and control functions.

The transfer functions, read, write, and a combined read/write can be used 
asynchronously, making it possible to drive multiple DYT01s from a single 
program.  WRITE will accept output byte counts as large as 4,096 bytes, 
automatically segmenting them into DYT01 sized packets. The control functions 
in the DYT01 library simplify the creation of such programs.

DECdataway Intelligent Subsystem Support

Supported intelligent subsystems include DYS50 DECdataway intelligent 
subsystems, DPM50 DECdataway I/O Subsystems, and DPM23 Programmable 
DECdataway Subsystems.

Interactive program-to-program communication is provided between programs in 
a VAX DY32 host and programs in remote subsystems. Among the functions
that enable the communications are:

^  CONNECT

^  TRANSMIT

^  RECEIVE

^  DISCONNECT

These functions are provided via a QIO interface for MACRO and a CALL 
interface for any high-level language supported by VMS. A maximum of 
32 logical links can be established between programs in a VAX DY32 host 
and programs in each remote subsystem. User application programs in a 
remote subsystem can be written in PDP-11 MACRO or FORTRAN IV/RSX to 
execute under RSX-11S.

Remote Subsystem Functions

^  Downline loading of a specified system image to a specified remote

^  Transfer of the contents of a specified remote system image to a disk 
   file at a VAX DY32 host for later analysis by an RSX-11S crash dump analyzer

^  Automatic rebooting of a remote subsystem from a VAX DY32 host without 
   operator intervention

^  Transfer of messages up to 16K bytes in length

^  Operation of 4M bytes mapped remote subsystems



HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.57.08-x).


SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System 

VAX-11 RSX 

*Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions of
 prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.57.08-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-220A*-**        
Software Media: QA-220AA-*M           
Software Documentation: QA-220AA-*Z
Software Product Services: QT-220A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's        
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's licensing 
terms and policies,contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY
  
This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS  
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License
Management Manual of VMS Operating System documentation set.        
  
For more information about DIGITAL's Licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more information 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
this SPD.

July 1989
AE-L879I-TE  

