
PRODUCT NAME: VAX LIMS/SM, Version 1.4             SPD 26.18.05
              Laboratory Information Management System/Sample Management  
   
DESCRIPTION 
   
VAX LIMS/SM is an information management system designed to provide  
sample tracking in testing laboratories.  User can log samples into  
VAX LIMS/SM either manually or automatically, distribute work  
throughout the laboratory, enter test data, generate reports, as 
well as, determine the current status of any sample.  
   
VAX LIMS/SM may be tailored in a number of areas to provide a   
unique sample management solution for every laboratory.  It can run  
without modifications immediately after installation.  

The VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem, a component of VAX LIMS/SM,   
allows requests for testing to be transferred to other software packages 
that acquire data from analytical instruments, or other testing devices, 
and return the results of that testing back to VAX LIMS/SM.  Those software 
packages may be located on the same VAX, or on another node of a VAXcluster, 
Local Area VAXcluster, or DECnet network (requires optional software).  
   
     
The facilities provided by VAX LIMS/SM include:  
   
Sample Login:  
   
^  Sample identification (or sample number) is generated manually   
   or by the system. 
      
^  Multiple sample-numbering algorithms can be added to fit   
   different user needs.    
   
^  A sample can be entered into the system interactively,  
   automatically from a schedule, or from a file processed in a  
   batch queue.  

^  An existing sample may be used as a template.
   
^  Tests may be requested individually or by groups.  
   
^  Samples may be split into aliquots at sample login or later in  
   the sample processing.  Each aliquot is assigned test requests  
   which may be reassigned to other aliquots.  Once a test request  
   is sent to an external software package via the VAX LIMS  
   Communications Subsystem, that request cannot be moved to  
   another aliquot.  However, new test requests can be added to  
   new or existing aliquots.  
   
^  Sample and aliquot labels may be printed, with or without  
   barcodes (optional hardware required).  Sample labels may be  
   reprinted at any time after the samples have been entered into  
   the system.  The format of the labels may be tailored to meet  
   different user needs.  
   
Collection List: 
    
^  Lists samples that have been entered into the system but have  
   not been picked up or sent to the lab. 
   
^  Created for specified collectors and routes.  
   
Sample Receipt:  
   
^  Changes the status of samples not in the lab at the time of  
   sample login from LOGGED to IN-LAB when they arrive in the lab. 
    
^  Allows testing to begin on a sample.  
   
^  Samples can be received individually or by collection list.  
          
Worksheet:  
   
^  Produces lists of test requests by test.  
   
^  Can assign tests to a work location, which may be a laboratory   
   section or instrument workstation.  
   
^  Test results may be entered, edited or reviewed by worksheet.  
   
Sample Progress Display:  
   
^  Provides a means of checking the progress of a sample through  
   the lab and gives the results of testing completed to date.  
   
^  Displays a flag for a numerical result that is outside of  
   either of two ranges, and displays the ranges.  
   
Test Results Entry:  
  
^  Test results can be entered or edited by sample, test, or   
   worksheet.  
   
^  Results may be numbers or text.  
   
^  Results may be computed from entered results via user-written        
   algorithms in a compiled language (requires additional  
   software).  
   
^  Displays a flag for a numerical result that is outside of  
   either of two ranges, and displays the ranges.  
   
Test Result Review:  
   
^  Results may be reviewed by sample, test, or worksheet.  
  
^  Tests can be repeated, at the discretion of the reviewer.  
   
Sample Approval:  
   
^   Provides final sign-off of all test requests for a sample.  
   
Audit Trail:  
   
^  Maintains a record of revisions to sample data, including the  
   date and time the change occurred, who made the change, and in  
   the case of test results, the reason for change.  
   
^  Can be selected at installation time; no overhead if not  
   selected.  
   
Archiving of data:  
   
^  Data can be archived to off-line storage (optional hardware  
   required).  
   
^  Data may later be restored to a read-only database, and merged  
   with data copied from the active database, for reporting,  
   statistical analysis, etc.  
   
Directories:  
   
^  Directories of the following entries in the sample management  
   database may be displayed, filed, printed, or mailed  
   electronically via VAXmail:  clients, projects, subjects,  
   samples, tests, and sample types.  The directories may be  
   restricted to specific key values, including substring matches  
   and wildcards.  The directories may be sorted using  
   user-defined sort criteria.  
   
Search/Select Key Field data:  
   
^  A valid database key may be selected or searched for  while the    
   cursor is on the key field in a data entry form.  The select  
   capability will place a valid key from the sample management  
   database into that field.  If the select key is typed again,  
   the next valid key from the database replaces the previous one  
   in that field.  The search capability will erase the form on  
   the screen and display a list of valid keys for that field.   
   Leading characters may be entered into the field to determine   
   the starting point for search/select.  
   
User definable keypad:  
   
^  A mechanism is provided to allow the user to redefine the  
   functionality of the default keypad supplied with the installed  
   system.  
   
Reports:  
   
^  Example reports are provided with the system: Results Report,   
   Control Report, Audit Report, Backlog Report, Test  
   Configuration Report, and Device Configuration Report.  
   
^  New reports may be added, or the example reports tailored  
   (requires optional software).  
   
^  You can develop multiple output formats for the example  
   reports, except the audit report.  FORTRAN sources of the  
   example formats are supplied.    
  
^  Interactive queries and graphics are supported through VAX  
   DATATRIEVE (requires optional software and hardware).  
   
^  Reports may be printed and distributed on paper or maintained  
   on disk and distributed by electronic mail.  
   
^  A trend display is provided, which plots the results of a   
   particular test on samples from a single sample source over a  
   specified period of time (optional hardware required).  
   
Security:  
   
^  Access to the system is controlled.  Users are restricted to  
   the sample management functions they are authorized to use.  
   
^  If a user is not authorized to use a function, that function  
   does not appear on any menu VAX LIMS/SM presents to that user.  
   
Tailoring:  
   
^  Forms, reports, and menus can be tailored, within documented   
   restrictions of the software.  
   
^  A function is provided to allow users to edit the VAX LIMS/SM  
   queries so that they more closely resemble the lab's  
   terminology.  
   
^  The database design allows users to model the operation of  
   their lab.  
   
^  Reserved fields are provided in the database and on the forms  
   to allow for user-specific information.  
   
^  For optimum performance, physical layout of the database can be   
   adjusted, independent of the software, to meet the system's   
   configuration.  
   
^  At points in the VAX LIMS/SM functions, user-written routines  
   may be linked to provide additional functionality.    
   
Note: These routines may read from the database only; they must  
      not write into the database.  Any user-written software that  
      writes into the VAX LIMS/SM database voids the warranty.  
   
   
VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem  
   
The VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem is the facility that allows  
VAX LIMS/SM to communicate with user-written or third-party software.  
This external software may be used to manage the use of and/or acquire 
data from laboratory instrumentation or other testing devices.  That 
software may reside on the same processor as VAX LIMS/SM, or may reside 
on another node in a VAXcluster, Local Area VAXcluster, or DECnet network 
(requires optional software).  The communications subsystem is composed 
of a generalized message transport facility and a specific message  
protocol for communications between VAX LIMS/SM and instrument 
management software.  
  
The VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem includes the following  
components:  
   
^  The Communications Monitor is a detached process that provides   
   control of the VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem and  
   dispatching of all messages as communications transactions.  
   
^  Senders are functional components of VAX LIMS/SM and the  
   external software packages that initiate the sending of  
   messages.  A Sender Subroutine Library is provided for  
   implementing new Senders in user-written external software   
   packages.  
   
^  Receivers are the functional components of VAX LIMS/SM and  
   external software packages that receive the completed  
   communications transactions and perform the appropriate  
   database transactions with the received data.  A Receiver Shell  
   is provided for implementing new Receivers for user-written  
   external software packages.  
   
Writing external software to communicate with VAX LIMS/SM via the  
VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem requires any one of the language  
compilers supported by VMS.  


SOURCE CODE

^  Source code is not available for this product.  However, examples of
   formatting routines are supplied in FORTRAN as templates to allow the 
   users to customize the format of the report output for their individual 
   labs.  These templates read parameter files generated by the LIMS/SM 
   report programs.  They do not access the database.
   
^  In addition, the following non-binary files are supplied in the kit:

   - Message text

   - Command procedures for Startup, Login, and running Communications
     Subsystem and batch jobs

   - Load/Unload format and sequence files for DBMS database

   - Text driver files


INSTALLATION   
   
The first installation of VAX LIMS/SM at a customer site must be  
installed by DIGITAL.  Subsequent installations may be performed by  
the customer.  DIGITAL's Installation Services can be purchased as  
part of a Packaged Service Option.
   

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 
    
VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System
Support Addendum (SSA 26.18.05-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*            

^ VMS Operating System
   
^ VAX Common Data Dictionary/Plus  

^ VAX DBMS

^ VAX Forms Management System            

^ VMS Workstation Software      

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 26.18.05-x).


ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-456A*-**
Software Media: QA-456A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-456AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-456A*-**

Communication Subsystem Only: 

Software Licenses:  QL-457A*-** 
Software Media: QA-457A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-457AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-457A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
  services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.


SOFTWARE LICENSING     

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL 
office.

Full licenses are required for all prerequisite software products for the
first installation at a facility.  Run-time licenses of FMS and DBMS may be
used for subsequent installation.  However, with the run-time license for 
VAX FMS, it is not possible to modify forms supplied with VAX LIMS/SM, or to 
create new forms for user-written functions.  With the run-time license for 
VAX DBMS, it will not be possible to create user written software that reads 
the VAX LIMS/SM database.  In either case, user-written software must not 
write into the VAX LIMS/SM database.  To do so voids the warranty.

If you have VAX LIMS/SM installed on a CPU fully licensed for that product 
and you wish to use the VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem on an additional 
CPU connected via DECnet, you can purchase a License for the VAX LIMS 
Communications Subsystem only.  This license gives you the right to use only 
the VAX LIMS Communications Subsystem portion on a single CPU in order to
communicate with VAX LIMS/SM.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies,
contact your local DIGITAL office.


SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES  

Startup Service Packages        

To meet the first year software support needs of your new computer   
system, DIGITAL offers comprehensive Startup Service Packages.  
For a fixed price, each Package includes the distribution media,     
documentation, and one year of software service for this product and   
all concurrently purchased qualified DIGITAL dependent products.   
Additional service components, such as installation, orientation,   
and training, are included at various Package levels.  For more   
information on what is included in each Startup Service Package   
level, please obtain the appropriate Service Description from your 
local DIGITAL office.               

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more
information contact your local DIGITAL office.


SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the   
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software   
Warranty Addendum of this SPD.     
 

May 1989
AE-Y488F-TE




