
PRODUCT NAME: MicroVAX MIRA Switch Control, Version 2.1    SPD 27.86.02

DESCRIPTION

System Overview

MicroVAX MIRA Switch Control is the software for controlling a MicroVAX
based MIRA System.

A MIRA System is comprised of dual MicroVAX computers, each 
supplied by its own power source and mounted in a single cabinet, or 
in two cabinets for larger configurations. The configuration of each
computer is normally identical, so that one computer is a backup for the 
other in the event of failure.

The computers are linked via Ethernet and MIRA unique hardware. The
software controls the status (Master, Standby, or Idle) of each computer.  
It detects a computer failure and changes the status of each computer 
accordingly. 

Designated devices which were previously connected to a failed Master computer
are connected to the Standby computer, whose status then becomes Master.
The user can then restart applications on the new Master and 
continue operation.

MIRA Systems are particularly suited to dedicated control applications, 
rather than general purpose data processing. That is, applications that
need to maintain communication with terminals and other computers,
as well as full performance after a failure, or to recover without operator 
intervention, can do so.

The two computers operate independently; for example, process and volume 
shadowing are not features of MIRA. A MIRA System provides the hardware and 
software environment required for the development of such high availability 
control applications.

The Ethernet link can be utilized by the application programs to exchange 
status information and to back-up critical data on the Standby computer. 
Each computer has a unique Ethernet address and node name.

For automatic recovery, the user application is required to maintain the 
Standby in a state of readiness where it can assume Mastership. The 
user application is also required to recover communication with the devices 
which have been switched and for the restart/recovery of the Master 
application. 

Switched Devices

Switched Devices are those which are configured such that they can be 
connected to either computer. The devices are connected to the MIRA System
via a common I/O distribution panel and the hardware and software controls
to which computer they are assigned at any time.

The operator specifies whether a device should be connected to the Master or
Standby computer via a utility which creates the Switch Map File.  

The computer with the status Master has those devices designated by the 
Switch Map File as Master Devices connected to it; the computer with the status 
Standby has Standby Devices connected.

A computer with the status Idle has no switched devices connected.

Start Up 

The Start Up process for the complete MIRA System is normally synchronised 
such that the same status is assigned as the last time the MIRA System was 
active. This status is recorded by the Flag File; and the option is known 
as Flag File Management. 

If this option is disabled, or is the first time that the MIRA system 
is started, or if one of the computers fails to start correctly, then the first 
computer to complete the MIRA Start Up will become Master.

Program and Manual Control

A two position key switch on the front panel of the MIRA System, determines 
the system mode. 

Under Program Mode, the MIRA Switch Control software automatically
reconfigures the Standby as Master if a failure is detected (System Failover) 
and swaps the system status at the request of the operator 
or a user application (System Swap).

In Manual Mode, changes in status are inhibited and can only be effected from 
the front panel.

Failure Detection

The MIRA Switch Control software exchanges status messages via the MIRA
hardware, which includes a private communications link. If the software on
either computer is unable to send its message within the user-specified
period, this will be detected on each computer.

If it is the Master computer that has failed to send its status message and
the system is in Program Mode, then a System Failover occurs.
 
If it is the Standby which has failed, then it is made Idle. 
Optionally, Standby Devices can be reconnected to the Master computer.

System Failover Operation

In the event of a System Failover, the following occurs:

^ The Master switched devices are disconnected and the Master computer's
  status is changed to Idle.

^ If the feature known as "DCLOW" is enabled, the Master system is 
  automatically powered down (thus releasing any RA type disks, so that 
  they can be mounted on the other system).

^ If the other computer is in Standby mode, then the Master Devices 
  are connected, and its status changed to Master. The Standby Devices
  may optionally be released or kept connected to the new Master.

The full MIRA Switch Control software can perform a System Failover in 
less than two seconds, or in less than one second if Flag File Management 
is disabled. After the System Failover is complete, the user's application 
programs are responsible for failure recovery. 

Diagnostics should then be run on the faulty computer. This can be done 
without affecting the application(s) running in the new Master.  Repair
can be effected on the faulty system, normally without affecting
the Master computer in any way.

The user can provoke a System Failover through the use of an operator
command or user-callable subroutine (see below).

Re-start

If a failed computer is restarted and the other is Master, it will become the
Standby and the Standby devices reconnected. If the option is selected to
retain the Standby devices on the Master after System Failure, the Standby
devices will not be re-connected to the Standby until the user's application
on the Master has released them.

System Swap Operation

Customer written application programs or the operator can command a 
System Swap. This operation can be disabled by the operator or
an application program. It is only valid from the Master when the
other computer is in Standby mode and when the system is in Program Mode.

In the event of a valid System Swap, the following occurs:

^ The switched devices are disconnected from both computers.

^ The Master computer status becomes Standby and the other 
  becomes Master.

^ The Master Devices are connected to the new Master
  and the Standby Devices to the new Standby.

System Force Operation

In Manual Mode, the operator can force a swap of the system, no matter 
what the status is of either computer. However, if one of the computers 
is Idle, then its status remains Idle. This is activated via the 
front panel.

Summary of the Effect of Failover, Swap and Force Operations

                       Before                After

                  Status A   Status B  Status A    Status B
                -------------------------------------------
    Failover	| master   | standby  | idle     | master  |
 		| master   | idle     | idle     | idle    |
		| standby  | master   | master   | idle    |
		| idle     | master   | idle     | idle    |
                |------------------------------------------|
    Swap	| master   | standby  | standby  | master  |
		| standby  | master   | master   | standby |
		|------------------------------------------|
    Force       | master   | standby  | standby  | master  |
 		| master   | idle     | standby  | idle    |
		| standby  | master   | master   | standby |
		| standby  | idle     | master   | idle    |
		| idle     | master   | idle     | standby |
 		| idle     | standby  | idle     | master  |
		 ------------------------------------------

Note: Status A and Status B differentiates the status of the two computers.

On-Line Testing

On-line Tests can be invoked by the operator to test the MIRA unique hardware 
on a system. This tests all the MIRA hardware components without actually
changing the state of a switch and thus can be used without disturbing the 
applications running on either computer.

Operator Commands

A set of operator commands enables the operator to control the MIRA System.

User Application Interface

The User Application Interface provides a set of user-callable subroutines 
by which a user application requests functions and receives information via 
the MIRA Switch Control software which must be active.

Subroutines are available for VAX PASCAL, VAX MACRO, VAX ADA 
VAX BASIC, VAX COBOL, VAX BLISS32, VAX PLI, VAX C
and VAX FORTRAN 
including the following functions:

MRACON	Connects the user application (maximum 8 simultaneous connections)

MRADIS  Disables System Swap Operations

MRAENA  Enables System Swap Operations

MRAOVR  Provoke System Failure

MRASWA	Requests a System Swap Operation

MRAREL	Requests that Standby Lines be released from the Master 
        computer

MRAGET  Gets the MIRA system status

The user applications can also be notified, if requested, of changes
in system status and thus invoke the necessary recovery procedures.

The Driver Interface

The Driver Interface communicates with the MIRA Hardware via the Q-bus. 
It provides a number of functions which can be requested using system service 
calls and QIOs and thus enable an application to control the failure detection
and switching mechanism itself.

The interface gives access to the full capabilities of the MIRA hardware.
Users may choose not to use the full MIRA Switch Control software, but to 
perform this control from within their own applications. This requires a 
fuller understanding of the MIRA hardware and is normally only 
appropriate when a high level of real-time control is required by the 
application. 

Clock Synchronization

The two computer clocks can be synchronized within a few milliseconds.
This feature is available via the Driver Interface or may, optionally, be 
managed automatically by the control software.

SOURCE CODE

The following source code modules are provided with binary, single-use
license optiions on all magnetic distribution media:

^ Symbolic definitions for the driver interface

^ Message text

^ MIRA logic module driver

^ ADA Application Interface routines

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this product.
DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase DIGITAL's Installation
Services. These services provide for installation of the software product by
an experienced DIGITAL Software Specialist.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

MicroVAX configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA
27.86.02-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

*Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions
of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 27.86.02-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-09TA*-**
Software Media: QA-09TAA-*5 
Software Documentation: QA-09TAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-09TA*-**
  
* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on 
  available licenses, services and media refer to the appropriate 
  price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's licensing 
terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

License Management Facility Support

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.
For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (25.01.xx) or
the VMS Operating System documentation set. 


SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more information 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase of 
a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.



