PRODUCT NAME:  MUXserver 300 Remote Terminal Server      SPD 25.E9.00
               for VMS, Version 1.0


DESCRIPTION

The MUXserver 300 Remote Terminal Server is a wide area terminal switch for 
Ethernet Local Area Networks. It has been designed to support interactive 
asynchronous terminal users, using data compression, background priority, and 
statistical multiplexing to optimize the network performance. 

A MUXserver/DECmux 300 network provides a convenient method to logically 
connect workgroups of remotely located asynchronous terminals, printers, and 
computers, to each other, and to one or more service nodes (hosts) on an 
Ethernet. A fully configured MUXserver/DECmux 300 network will support 48 
logically connected devices, and 192 physically connected devices. The devices 
may be grouped in up to six different locations.  Remote connection via dial-in 
modems is fully supported on up to sixteen lines per DECmux 300, allowing the 
network to be further extended. 

Once a connection is established a user can utilize application programs and 
utilities as though the terminal was directly connected to a host via a DZ11, 
DMF32, DHU11 device, with a few exceptions. Similarly a remote user connected 
to a MUXserver/DECmux 300 network will be able to access the same facilities as 
a user connected to a local DECserver 200 Terminal Server on the same Ethernet, 
the only restriction being the speed of the synchronous communications link 
between the remote DECmux 300 and the MUXserver 300.

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 also allows for LAT service node host-initiated 
connections to asynchronous printers. A special print symbiont on service nodes 
can initiate connections to asynchronous printers connected to MUXserver/DECmux 
300 ports. This allows the printers to be distributed throughout a LAN/WAN  and 
accessed transparently by service node users. The MUXserver/DECmux 300 also 
provides the capability to connect host systems that do not support the LAT 
protocol, DIGITAL personal computers, and dial-out modems directly to ports on 
the server. Interactive server users can issue commands to connect to services 
which are offered on such ports. Port-to-port connections on the same server 
are also supported, note that this counts as two logically connected devices. 

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 implements the Local Area Transport (LAT) protocol for 
communication with service nodes that implement this protocol on the same 
Ethernet. This interface has been optimized for high terminal I/O performance 
over an Ethernet, while reducing host CPU cycles required to handle interrupts. 
Hence, under most I/O loading conditions, a significant performance gain may be 
realized by using the MUXserver/DECmux 300 versus direct terminal connections 
via DZ11s. 

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 also implements and supports the Terminal 
Device/Session Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple sessions at the 
device level. The MUXserver/DECmux 300 provides the ability to communicate with 
devices which also implement this protocol, and assist in the management of 
multiple sessions for these devices. By implementing this protocol, the 
MUXserver/DECmux 300 can permit attached devices to maintain screen and 
keyboard context for multiple LAT sessions, as well as allow these devices to 
run multiple LAT sessions concurrently. 

Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal sessions, automatic 
failover, and remote printer support can lead to greater user productivity. 

MUXserver/DECmux 300 Configuration Options

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 network is built from two basic options. The MUXserver 
300, which connects to the Ethernet, and the remote unit the DECmux 300.

Each MUXserver 300 can support up to two synchronous communications lines, and 
each line can support up to three DECmux 300s, providing a maximum of six 
DECmux 300s.

A single DECmux 300 can be configured to support 8, 16, 24 or 32 asynchronous 
port connections. Field upgrade panels are available to allow the configuration 
to be changed. Panels are available to provide 8 EIA232-D ports with or without 
modem control, or 16 DEC423 ports, using data leads only. Each DECmux 300 can 
support two panels in total.


Features

Terminal Connection Management

Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical connection, 
called a session, to any service node that implements the LAT protocol on the 
same Ethernet LAN. This connection makes the terminal appear as if it were 
physically connected to the service node, and the terminal user can use 
standard system utilities and applications supported by that node. Each 
terminal connected to the DECmux 300 remote terminal multiplexer can connect to 
the same or a different service node on the Ethernet. 

A service node can have one or more services that are offered to 
MUXserver/DECmux 300 network users. Services and nodes are identified by name. 
Users always connect to services, not to nodes, although often one of the 
service names will be the node name. 

In a VAXcluster environment, the MUXserver/DECmux 300 sees each VAXcluster on 
the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering a common service. Each 
cluster node may also offer a service whose name is equivalent to its node 
name. In this case, a terminal user can connect either to the cluster service 
or a service associated with a particular cluster node. 

Non-LAT Host Support

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 can be used to provide logical terminal connections to 
hosts that do not implement the LAT protocol. In this type of configuration, 
the server becomes the Ethernet connection and protocol support for these 
hosts. This expands the LAT network accessibility to the terminal user to 
include LAT hosts directly connected to the same Ethernet and hosts connected 
to the LAT network via the MUXserver/DECmux 300 network, and non-LAT hosts 
connected to the same Ethernet via a DECserver 200 or DECserver 500 terminal 
server. 

A host that supports XON/XOFF, ASCII standards and EIA 232-D/CCITT V.24/V.28 
interfaces can be connected to the MUXserver/DECmux 300. This provides the 
terminal user with a transparent connection to the non-LAT host. It is strongly 
recommended that server port and the host side port utilize modem control 
signals to automatically signal the host upon session disconnection. 

In this configuration, there is a one-to-one correspondence between the port on 
a MUXserver/DECmux 300 and the connection on the host. The server manager 
assigns service names to individual ports or groups of ports that connect the 
host interface to the server. 

Where a connection is established between two physical ports on the same 
MUXserver/DECmux 300 network this will count as two logical connections. 

Load Balancing

When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the connection is 
determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process the server uses when 
more than one node offers the same service. Service nodes do not have to be 
configured in a cluster in order for load balancing to be used. Service nodes 
with the same names may be running different operating systems. Using the load 
balancing process, the server connects to the node with the highest rating for 
the service desired. This rating is based on the current loading on the nodes 
that offer the service. 

Multiple Sessions

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 allows each user to establish and maintain up to eight 
sessions to one or more service nodes, up to a maximum of 96 per 
MUXserver/DECmux 300 network. Only one session per user can be active at a 
time. Through simple switching commands, the user can access the different 
sessions without repeating a login dialogue each time. Some operating systems 
may impose limits on the number of LAT sessions such a host will support. 

Multiple Session Management

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 server allows direct communication with devices which 
support the TD/SMP protocol.  This protocol provides the ability for the 
attached device to maintain screen and keyboard context for the multiple LAT 
sessions which the MUXserver/DECmux 300 provides.  By implementing the ability 
to directly communicate with this protocol to the attached device, the 
MUXserver/DECmux 300 will assist in the management of context of these multiple 
sessions, as well as allow for simultaneous output to multiple LAT sessions 
being maintained by the device. 

Outbound Connection Queues

If a terminal user requests a connection to a service, and the requested 
service is currently in use, the terminal server users may opt to have the 
connection requested queued to the remote service.  This feature will happen 
automatically whenever a connection fails for this reason if the user's port 
has been appropriately configured, and the service node is queuable.  The 
connection request is queued at the service node end and is processed 
first-in/first-out until such time as the user's connection request can be 
completed.  This feature assists in the fair management of limited network 
resources.  Once queued for connection, the user also has the option to cancel 
the queue entry and proceed with other sessions. 

Inbound Connection Queues

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 may offer ports as services. If a request is received 
for a connection to a service, and that service is being used the MUXserver 300 
may offer a queuing facility for incoming connect requests, connect requests 
are granted on a first come first served basis.

Access Contention

A fully configured MUXserver/DECmux 300 network can provide physical 
connections for 192 terminals. The MUXserver 300 will provide access to the 
first 48 users on a first come first served basis. Permanent logical 
connections may be assigned to specific ports to ensure access at all times. 
When a logical connection is not available a status message is relayed to the 
port requiring access. 

Welcome Identification

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 server standard welcome banner which includes terminal 
server type, version number, internal baselevel, and protocol version number is 
issued whenever a user successfully logs in to the server.  The server will 
also print a server manager settable identification string.   This can be 
useful for automatic server identification, or for small daily messages used 
for communication with the terminal server users. 


Local Mode and Service Mode 

For the most part, the environment provided by the MUXserver/DECmux 300 is 
identical to that the user would experience if attached directly to the service 
node. When operating in this mode, the user is said to be in Service Mode. 
Occasionally, such as during connection establishment, the user interacts 
directly with the MUXserver/DECmux 300. When operating in this mode, the user 
is in Local Mode. 

In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by MUXserver/DECmux 
300 as commands to be performed by the server. 

Additional commands and displays to support the features available with the 
TD/SMP protocol are usable in Local Mode.  These commands will be used to 
enable or disable server recognition of the TD/SMP commands. 

Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, nonprivileged 
and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the Server Manager to control the 
environment of the server and the terminal users. Access to this mode is 
password protected. Nonprivileged commands allow the terminal user to control 
their service sessions, set their terminal characteristics and show server 
information. The Server Manager can set the server to secure mode on a 
per-terminal basis which further limits the commands users can enter to only 
those which directly relate to the user's own terminal. 

The server management is a logical extension to the user environment. The 
server manager is treated as a user with a privileged status. This privileged 
status, which is password protected, allows the manager to enter commands not 
normally available to server users. Typically these commands are used to 
control the MUXserver/ DECmux 300 network operation and security. They are used 
to set server characteristics, provide control over server port usage, and 
control the user's access to the server and to network services. 

In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected service 
node with several exceptions. One exception, called the local switch character, 
allows the user to enter Local Mode from Service Mode. The <BREAK> key may also 
be used for this function. Other exceptions, called the forward and backward 
switch characters, allow the user to switch between sessions without the need 
to enter Local Mode. The switch characters are disabled by default but may be 
enabled by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally but 
flow control using these characters can be disabled. 

Autoconnection 

Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user terminal to a 
service node when connection failures occur or upon user login to the server. 
In conjunction with this function, a dedicated or preferred service can be 
specified for each terminal user. 

If a dedicated service is specified, the MUXserver/DECmux 300 will attempt to 
connect to that service when a character is typed on the terminal keyboard or 
when an existing connection fails. In dedicated service mode, only one session 
is available. As this mode is designed to simulate a direct terminal 
connection, no local mode commands or messages are available to the terminal 
user. Ports with dedicated service can be automatically logged out of the 
server when the user logs out of the service node. 

If a preferred service is specified, the MUXserver/DECmux 300 will attempt to 
connect to that service as with the dedicated service mode of operation. 
However, the terminal user can enter local mode and establish other sessions. 

Automatic Session Failover 

If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a connection to a 
service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user to another service 
node offering the same service.  The user does not have to be already connected 
to that service node. Furthermore, the user's context at the time of failure is 
not automatically restored and login to the new service is required. 

Groups

Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one or more 
groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 0 - 255. Groups allow an 
easy means of subdividing the network into what appears to be many smaller 
networks. A terminal user is only aware of the services that are offered by 
nodes in the same group(s). 

The server manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a terminal is a 
member. The authorized groups define the set of services that the user is 
allowed to access. In addition, a user can further restrict access to services 
by disabling some of the authorized groups using a non-privileged group 
command. The user-settable group codes are a subset of the authorized groups. 

Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view is 
mainly for user convenience and, although it also provides a form of security, 
it is not intended to be the primary form of access authorization or system 
security for a node. 

Security

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 provides functions which enhance security features 
already available in the service nodes.  MUXserver/DECmux 300 security includes 
the ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from other users, optional login 
protection, and nonprivileged local mode of operation as a default. 

A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the user to 
leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of security violations. 
When a terminal is locked, all input from the terminal is ignored until the 
lock password is re-entered. The lock feature may be disabled by the server 
manager. 

Each terminal port can be set to operate in a secure mode which causes all 
commands that relate to other users to be disabled for that port. 

Login passwords can be enabled on a per-line basis by the server manager. If 
enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to access server 
functions. 

MUXserver/DECmux 300 users normally have access to the nonprivileged local 
mode. In this mode, users may only issue commands that affect their own 
terminal environment. The server has a privileged mode for server manager's 
use. The mode is password protected. 

On-line HELP Facility

A full on-line reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP command 
provides information on the correct syntax and details about each command. In 
addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users to quickly learn the basics 
of MUXserver/DECmux 300 operation. Tutorial HELP may be entered upon logging 
into the server. 

Directory Service

Any MUXserver/DECmux 300 user can obtain a directory of services available to 
that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the user is not 
authorized will not be displayed. 

Permanent Characteristics 

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 maintains permanent characteristics in non-volatile 
memory which is retained even when the power is disconnected. Permanent 
characteristics are maintained for service and server parameters as well as 
per-port parameters. Permanent characteristics can be reset to factory defaults 
by pressing the software reset button on the hardware unit while plugging in 
the power cord. 

Port Characteristics Configuration 

Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be displayed 
by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively from their terminal. Many of the 
characteristics may be set-up by the user, but certain characteristics are 
privileged and may only be changed by the Server Manager. 

Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed, character size, 
group codes, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, modem and password 
protection. 

Port Access 

A port on a MUXserver/DECmux 300 may be set up in different ways depending on 
the device attached to the port and its intended use. MUXserver/DECmux 300 
supports EIA 232-D and DECconnect asynchronous devices operating at speeds up 
to 19.2K bps. 

Port access is the characteristic which determines how a port may access or be 
accessed by interactive users and service nodes. 

oo Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the 
  device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to 
  CONNECT to LAT services. This type of access is also used for dial-in 
  modems. 

oo Access Remote - Designed for applications-driven devices such as   
  asynchronous printers which are allocated by a service node process.   
  This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by multiple   
  service nodes. This type of access is also used for connections to   
  dial-out modems, and non-LAT host systems. 

oo Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal computers or   
  printers with keyboards) which require both Local and Remote access. 

oo Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable the use 
  of a port. 

Data Compression

Data Compression automatically enabled and disabled on a per port basis, 
dependent on the type of data being transmitted. It is more effective on 
blocks of data than on single characters, therefore compression 
efficiency will vary with the application.

Background Priority

Background priority is enabled on a per port basis. Traffic to and from 
ports set to background is reduced in favor of other traffic. This 
feature is especially useful for ports that are used for printers.  

Terminal Operation 

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 software supports the simultaneous operation of 
up to forty eight asynchronous devices at speeds from 75 bps to 19.2K 
bps. The total aggregate throughput is dependent on network link speeds 
and will typically be less than the sum of the individual terminal 
connections. The software also supports: 

oo Full modem control support (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports only) 

oo Data leads only support (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D and DEC423 ports) 

oo XON/XOFF flow control 

oo CTS/RTS and DSR/DTR flow control (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports only) 

oo Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation 

oo Modem fallback features (on DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports only) 

oo Block Mode transfers 

oo Automatic line speed detection (equal receive and transmit speed only) 

oo DIGITAL personal computer file transfer 

oo Data transparency mode 

oo Ability to pass break character and error notification 

oo Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP 

Network Configuration 

The MUXserver 300 is connected to an Ethernet using a DELNI, DECOM, 
DESTA, H4000, or H4005 via a transceiver cable. Two synchronous, 
composite data link connections are supported each of which can connect 
to a chain of one, two, or three, DECmux 300s. The maximum configuration 
is one MUXserver using two synchronous, composite links to six DECmux 
300s, with a maximum of three DECmux on a single composite link. 

The MUXserver 300 Ethernet port is compatible with Ethernet V2 and IEEE 
802.3 Local Area Networks.

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 composite links use HDLC LAPB data link 
protocols and can be connected using the following physical link options. 


oo EIA 232-D/CCITT V.28 at 9.6K, to 19.2K bits per second

oo CCITT X.21 bis /CCITT V.35 at 48K to 64K bits per second

oo EIA RS-449/CCITT V.36 up to 64K bits per second

oo CCITT X.21, leased line only, up to 64K bits per second

oo EIA RS-422 up to 64K bits per second 

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 EIA RS-422 composite link can be used to connect 
two units together; clocking signals are supplied from the MUXserver. 
Distances up to 1200 meters or 4000 feet are supported on suitable cable 
installations.

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 network is designed to operate over wide area 
network links that provide no significant delay and a transparent data 
path. Synchronous composite links operating over multiplexing equipment 
or satellite links are not supported.

Network configuration, link types, and link speeds will automatically 
configure, when the correct cables are used.

The DECmux 300 remote units require a connection to a MUXserver 300 for 
proper operation.

The DECmux units are available in the following configurations:

oo Base unit supporting eight EIA 232-D/CCITT V.24 ports with modem 
  control 

oo Base unit supporting sixteen EIA 232-D/CCITT V.24 ports with modem 
  control 

oo Base unit supporting sixteen DEC423 ports data leads only 

oo Base units supporting thirty two DEC423 ports, data leads only 

The eight and sixteen port units are field upgradable using the following 
upgrade panels kits. Software will automatically reconfigure the network 
and the DECmux 300 NVR will be initialized to factory default settings.

oo Eight EIA 232-D/CCITT V.24 ports with modem control

oo Sixteen DEC423 ports, data leads only  

The DECmux 300 EIA 232-D ports are compatible with DIGITAL's family of 
modems and with Bell 100 and 200 series modems and their equivalents. A 
BREAK feature is available and can be set on a per-port basis. This 
allows the DECmux 300 to force a break condition on connections to host 
interfaces. BREAK can also be passed through from a terminal connected on 
the server to the non-LAT host connected on the server. 

Server Management 

The MUXserver 300 supervisory port can accept directly connected 
asynchronous terminals with the following characteristics:

oo DEC423 asynchronous start/stop transmission, having 8 data bits, 1 stop 
  bit, and no parity.

oo Full duplex with XON/XOFF flow control

oo Speed selectable from one of the following: 300, 600 
  1200,2400,4800,9600 baud, or AUTOBAUD

Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server 
operation. The Server Manager in privileged mode can set up server 
identification information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the 
operating characteristics of the server. The Server Manager can also 
assign service names to groups of one or more ports which are connected 
to non-LAT hosts or modems. Troubleshooting facilities include diagnostic 
tests, a remote console feature, and online statistics. 

A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by 
looping messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware 
interface at the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can execute 
a command to transmit test data to their terminal, or the server manager 
can send test data to any terminal. 

A privileged user can also diagnose synchronous line problems by looping 
test messages between adjacent MUXserver 300 and DECmux 300 units.

The capability also exists for the server manager to test a service 
connection by sending data from the initiating port to the service node 
and back again. The data is then compared and any discrepancies reported. 
At the service node, the data can be looped back by the LAT protocol, or 
internally or externally at the service port. This feature is supported 
only by MUXserver/DECmux 300 service nodes; VMS service nodes do not 
support this service loopback capability. 

The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These include 
the following: Synchronous composite data link statistics, Ethernet data 
link statistics, LAT protocol statistics, and port error statistics. This 
data can be displayed and zeroed by the Server Manager. Server parameters 
that can be modified and displayed include the server identification, 
circuit timer, session limits, and login limits. 

Remote Server Management 

The MUXserver/DECmux 300 implements the console carrier feature which 
enables access to the MUXserver/DECmux 300 local mode from a Phase IV 
DECnet host on the same LAN. With the exception of remote console port 
configuration, the entire local mode user interface is accessible to the 
remote console carrier user. This includes the privileged commands, if 
the user knows the server's privileged password. This capability allows 
centralized server management and remote server diagnosis. 

MUXserver/DECmux 300 Operation 

The MUXserver 300 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary maintenance 
operation protocols for down-line loading MUXserver 300 software from a 
load host, over the Ethernet, into server memory. All self-test 
diagnostics are in MUXserver 300 ROM, so down-line loading is not a 
precondition for MUXserver self-test. In the event of a bugcheck caused 
by a fatal error, the unit will normally attempt to upline dump server 
memory to a DECnet Phase IV host. Following this the unit will 
automatically initialize itself, execute the self test routines, and if 
still operational invoke a down-line load. 

Once the MUXserver 300 downline load is complete the network will self 
configure and communications are established with the remote DECmux 300.

The remote DECmux 300 operates on ROM-based firmware; operational 
characteristics are stored in none volatile RAM. The remote DECmux 300 
does not require downline loading, but does require a connection to a 
MUXserver 300 for operation.

MUXserver/DECmux 300 Configuration and Performance 

The process of configuring the MUXserver/DECmux 300 network is based 
primarily on tradeoffs of cost and performance within the realm of 
satisfying user application requirements. Network applications will range 
from low-speed, low-cost situations (e.g. connecting single remote 
terminals through low-speed modems to remote DECmux 300s) to remote work 
groups or terminals with shared printing resources). The performance of a 
given network is a function of the network topology and line speeds, the 
expected network traffic, the load on hosts to which terminals are 
connected, and resultant processing pursuant to the dedicated function of 
the unit. Thus performance depends on several factors: 

oo Composite port speed

oo Number of route through composite ports

oo Number of terminals 

oo Number of host systems with active connections to the server 

oo Number of active connections to non-LAT hosts 

oo Terminal speeds 

oo Terminal user applications 

oo Number and size of host buffers 

oo Terminal workload 

In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a DIGITAL 
software specialist should perform a level of application analysis which 
addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data throughput cannot be 
calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line speed, since 
many factors already discussed in this section may reduce the actual 
throughput.

Restrictions on MUXserver/DECmux 300 Usage 

While terminal connections using the MUXserver/DECmux 300 have been 
designed to simulate direct terminal connections as much as possible, a 
few differences necessarily exist because of the nature of the product.  
Under most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by terminal 
users or service node application programs. However, applications which 
are directly dependent on the following functions may not operate as with 
a direct connection: 

oo Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed,   
  character size and parity by manipulating system data structures 

oo Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typically  
  less than 200 ms) to operate 

oo Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the service 
  node 

oo Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device 
  names

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 25.E9.00-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS* 

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

DECnet-VAX

* Refer to the Systems Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite software (SSA 25.E9.00-x).
       
ORDERING INFORMATION 

Software Licenses: QL-VT7A*-**
Software Media: QA-VT7A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VT7AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VT7A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING 

The MUXserver 300 software license applies to the MUXserver 300 on which 
the server software runs, not to service host node CPUs in the network. 

The MUXserver 300 software license is included with the MUXserver 300 
hardware.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES 

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD. 

April 1989
BH-MG98A-TE

