
  PRODUCT NAME:  VAX PRODUCER, Version 1.7            SPD 26.52.04

  DESCRIPTION
  
  VAX PRODUCER is a software package that allows users to create  
  visually-based, interactive programs such as Computer Based Instruction (CBI),
  point-of-purchase applications, marketing demonstrations or information
  retrieval systems. 
  
  VAX PRODUCER programs are made up of two components: a visual component  
  created by the VAX DRAW graphics editor, and an interactive/branching 
  component created using the VAX DESIGN development language.  VAX DRAW, the  
  graphics editor of the VAX PRODUCER system, allows a user to create screen  
  displays and store them in a file called a Display Library. The VAX DESIGN 
  development language is used to control the interaction with the user and  
  what happens as a result. VAX DESIGN source programs are preprocessed and  
  linked into a file containing a pseudo-machine language that is system and 
  address space independent.  Programs written in VAX DESIGN on a VMS   
  system can be run without modification on any system with a PRODUCER
  Interpreter. The PRODUCER Interpreter reads from the pseudo-code file and
  Display Library to present the information and interact with the user. Refer
  to the PRO/PRODUCER Tool Kit Software Product Description (SPD 40.34.xx) for
  more information. 
  
    
  VAX DESIGN Development Language Features
  
  ^  String, integer, floating, double floating, Boolean, exception, and      
  file variable types 
  
  ^  Arithmetic and logical operators 
  
  ^  Block structure and hierarchical units 
  
  ^  Structured and branching control expressions 
  
  ^  Ability to retrieve display information stored in Multiple Display      
     Libraries 
  
  ^  Ability to output text with graphic attributes 
  
  ^  Special handling of user typed strings or errors 
  
  ^  Processing of control and function keys 
  
  ^  Special constructs for menu control as a means to solicit and accept
     input 
  
  ^  User defined functions 

  ^  Ability to structure programs into modules which can be compiled      
     separately and linked together 
  
  ^  Commands to define and control windows, within which input and feedback
     can be displayed 
  
  ^  Ability to backup to defined points in the program 
  
  ^  Sequential, relative and indexed file support 
  
  ^  A set of string, date/time, and conversion functions 
  
  ^  Macro and Text Library facilities 
  
  ^  Ability to run and exchange information with other programs 
  
  ^  Ability to spawn operating system commands 
  
  ^  Direct access and control of an IVIS videodisc player when using an
     IVIS system 
   
  ^  Direct DECtouch control via access to the DECtouch Positional Device     
     Interface using a PRO/Touch or IVIS/Touch system 
  
  ^  Special runtime graphics capability 
  
  VAX PRODUCER Computer-Based Instruction
  
  The VAX PRODUCER Computer-Based Instruction course introduces users to the
  fundamentals of the VAX DESIGN language and VAX DRAW graphics editor.  The
  course runs on any of the VAX PRODUCER supported terminals in ANSI mode. 
  
  VAX DESIGN Preprocessor 

  The VAX DESIGN Preprocessor translates source programs written in the VAX 
  DESIGN language into pseudo-code format. As it does so, it checks for correct
  syntax, expands macros, and performs all language related checking. 
  
  VAX DESIGN Linker 
  
  The VAX DESIGN Linker takes one or more pseudo-code files output by the
  Preprocessor and links them together into a single file that can be executed
  by the interpreter. 
  
  VAX DRAW - The Graphics Editor
  
  VAX DRAW is a graphics editor that creates visual screen displays known as 
  forms.  Forms are stored in two formats:  a source format which can be 
  modified by VAX DRAW or any other VMS-supported text editor, and a compiled 
  format which is kept in a file called a Display Library.  The Display Library 
  can then be processed (or read) by a PRODUCER interpreter.   VAX DRAW has the
  following capabilities: 
  
  ^  Text - Characters may be positioned on the screen, centered, or       
     displayed in blocks. 
  
  ^  Graphics - VAX DRAW has commands to make arcs, polygons, circles,       
     boxes, blocks, lines and curves. The use of these features is terminal
     dependent. 
  
  ^  Attributes - VAX DRAW supports various attributes including height,       
     size, color, area fill, italics, blink, bold, and reverse.  The use of
     any attribute is limited by the capabilities of the terminal type. 
  
  ^  Animation - Text may be animated from one location on the screen to      
     another. 
  
  ^  Nested Plots - Forms have the capability of displaying other forms,       
     which allows a common picture to be used many times and stored only       
     once. 
  
  ^  Menu - VAX DRAW creates the menus that are controlled by the       
     PRODUCER Interpreter. 
  
  ^  Conditional Compilation - Forms or pieces thereof may be compiled       
     relative to specific terminal types. 
  
  ^  Touch - Support for the DECtouch Touch Screen on Professional 300      
     Series systems (with hard disk) via a local or host system. 
   
  ^  Locator Mode - Ability to locate positions on the screen by means of
     a cursor. 
  
  ^  IVIS - When running the PRO/PRODUCER Terminal Emulator, VAX DRAW and
     the VAX PRODUCER Interpreter are capable of controlling videodisc       
     players connected to an IVIS System. 
    
  VAX DRAW - The Librarian 
  				
  Basic maintenance for Display Libraries is provided through the DRAW Librarian
  utility.  The Librarian also enables extended graphics capability via support
  of the output from other DIGITAL graphics editors, i.e. those producing GIDIS
  (.GID) or ReGIS (.PIC) files. 
  
  The maintenance capabilities of the Librarian include: listing and deleting 
  forms in a library, inserting foreign (GIDIS and ReGIS) forms and compressing
  the library. 
  
  VAX PRODUCER Interpreter 
  
  The VAX PRODUCER Interpreter reads and processes files created using the other
  components of the VAX PRODUCER development system.  Two types of files are
  supported: Display Libraries, which are created by the DRAW graphics editor
  and hold the visual information, and pseudo-code files (PRODUCER applications)
  created by using the DESIGN Preprocessor and Linker, which contain the
  branching, response, and judging information. 
  
  The VAX PRODUCER Interpreter also has the following capabilities: 
  
  ^  Calling other programs on the VMS system as directed by commands      
     in the PRODUCER application when the external program uses the
     Callable Program Support Library. 
  
  ^  Accessing and running PRODUCER applications as well as accessing Display 
     Libraries over a DECnet network. 
  
  ^  Spawning other applications via execution of any command line of the      
     delivery operating system directly from PRODUCER applications. 

  VAX PRODUCER ADMIN
  
  VAX PRODUCER ADMIN provides a delivery environment for VAX PRODUCER 
  applications.  The system consists of the following components: 
  
  ^  Application Delivery Interface (ADI), which serves as the interface
     between the user and the application 
  
  ^  Application Delivery Manager (ADM), which allows the site      
     administrator to enter applications into a database, authorize and      
     register users and generate reports 
  
  ^  A library of routines to be used in the application for recording and     
     accessing data in the ADMIN database 
  
  ^  Database files which contain user authorization, enrollment and      
     performance information, in addition to application installation and
     usage data. These files may be read by other DIGITAL database management
     and report generating utilities, so that customized reports can be created.
  
  PRODUCER Libraries 
  
  ^  Callable Program Support Library - The VAX PRODUCER Interpreter is       
     capable of calling external programs by use of interprocess       
     communications facilities.  The Callable Program Support Library       
     contains those routines that the external program must use to       
     communicate with the VAX PRODUCER Interpreter.  This allows the two       
     programs to exchange information stored in variables (integer, floating,
     double floating, Boolean, and string) and information about the process
     status (process starting/process exiting). For more information about
     the VAX PRODUCER Interpreter, refer to SPD 26.53.xx. 
  
  ^  Answer-judging packages -  A set of preprocessed source programs and
     package files which may be linked with VAX DESIGN applications. Included
     are routines for verbal and numerical answer judging. 
  
  ^  Host Server Subroutine Library - This library contains routines which      
     enable VMS applications not written in VAX DESIGN, to access the
     IVIS, CGL graphics and DECtouch (PDI) features which are available     
     through use of the PRO/PRODUCER Terminal Emulator on a Professional 300 
     Series System with hard disk or IVIS system when host-connected to the
     VAX or MicroVAX.  For more information about the PRO/PRODUCER Terminal 
     Emulator, refer to the PRO/PRODUCER Tool Kit SPD (40.34.xx). 




  HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

  VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the
  System Support Addendum (SSA 26.52.04-x).



  SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

  VMS Operating System 

  *Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and
   required versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 26.52.04-x).


  ORDERING INFORMATION
  
  Software License: QL-040**-**
  Software Media: QA-040**-**
  Software Documentation: QA-040AA-GZ
  Software Product Services: QT-040A*-**

  * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses, 
  services and media refer to the appropriate price book.


  SOFTWARE LICENSING
  
  This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
  Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about
  DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL
  office.
  


  LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

  This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.
  License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

  For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
  VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the
  License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
  documentation set.

  For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, 
  contact your local DIGITAL office.



  SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES
  
  A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
  information, please contact your local DIGITAL office.



  SOFTWARE WARRANTY 

  Warranty for this product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase of
  a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
  this SPD.

AE-AU46E-TE
