PRODUCT NAME:  DECrouter 2000, Version 1.1		  SPD 28.85.01

DESCRIPTION

The DECrouter 2000 is a communications product that provides a routing
service for the Local Area Network (LAN). This allows communication
with nodes outside the LAN within a Wide Area Network (WAN). By using
a DECrouter 2000, the routing load on the other Ethernet nodes can be
reduced, releasing these resources for other applications. 

Overview

The DECrouter 2000 provides access to and from Phase IV DECnet nodes
on a Local Area Network (LAN) to Phase III or Phase IV DECnet nodes
over synchronous lines. These nodes may be located either locally, via
dedicated wiring, or remotely via modem connections. Note that LAN
refers to any Local Area Network that conforms with the Ethernet, IEEE
802.3, or ISO 8802/3 standards. 

The DECrouter 2000 software product runs on the DEC MicroServer
(DEMSA) hardware unit. This unit contains an Ethernet interface port
(IEEE 802.3 compatible) and four synchronous communications ports. 

The DECrouter 2000 supports the four synchronous lines at speeds up to
64K bits per second, two synchronous lines at speeds up to 256K bits
per second, or one synchronous line at speeds up to 2.048M bits per
second. Communication over the synchronous lines is full- or
half-duplex, and full modem control is supplied on all synchronous
line(s). The synchronous port(s) can operate as DDCMP point-to-point
or multipoint links, and can communicate with all supported
synchronous DIGITAL DDCMP products, excluding the DMC11. On DDCMP
multipoint links, the DECrouter 2000 can act only as a tributary. 

The DECrouter 2000 software image is installed and configured on a
VMS, MicroVMS or ULTRIX-32 system (termed a load host) on the same LAN
as the DEC MicroServer; this software image is then down-line loaded
to the unit from this load host. The installation process enables the
manager of the load host to define the Ethernet address, routing
characteristics, and DDCMP circuits to be used by the DECrouter 2000.
The configuration databases can be created and modified by using
utilities that are on the load host. 

The DECrouter 2000 is fully integrated into DIGITAL's Network
Management strategy. Management is through the DECnet Network Control
Program (NCP) from any DECnet Phase IV node, allowing the system
manager to control the DECrouter 2000, display statistics and error
information, and test the components of the network. A separate TRACE
utility (available on VMS or MicroVMS load hosts) assists
problem-solving by tracing information within the DECrouter 2000. 

Path splitting, where there are two or more equal-cost paths between
the DECrouter 2000 and the destination DECnet node, is supported.  For
this feature, all the destination nodes on the network must support
out-of-order packet caching. 

Routing and DECnet Phase IV Areas

The DECrouter 2000 implements Phase IV (with extended functionality)
DECnet DDCMP routing and network management. Phase IV DECnet networks
are hierarchical networks that can be segmented into up to 63 areas,
each containing up to 1023 nodes. Note that these are maximum values
permitted by the Digital Network Architecture, and that satisfactory
operation in large networks requires proper network planning. 

Level 1 Routers route directly towards nodes within their own area,
and route towards a Level 2 Router when the destination node is in a
different area. Level 2 Routers act as Level 1 Routers within their
own area, but in addition route to other areas. 

The DECrouter 2000 is a dedicated routing system that supports both
the intra-area routing (Level 1) and inter-area routing (Level 2) for
Phase IV nodes on a Local Area Network, or Phase III or Phase IV
remote nodes connected to one of the four synchronous lines. 

Line Support 

The DECrouter 2000 software product runs on the DEC MicroServer
(DEMSA) hardware unit. This is a LANbridge 100-type enclosure that
contains an Ethernet interface port (IEEE 802.3 compatible) and four
synchronous communications ports. The hardware unit is supplied as a
table-top unit, but also can be wall or rack mounted in a standard 19
inch rack. 

The DECrouter 2000 supports V.24 interchange circuits, the following
electrical interfaces: V.28 (RS232-D), RS232-C, V.36/V.11 (RS449/RS422), 
V.10 (RS449/RS423), and V.35, and CCITT (1980) X.21 for leased line
services only. The number of lines supported depends on the electrical
interface type, and the maximum line speed in use, as follows: 

   DEC MicroServer           Maximum Line Speed (Kbps)

      Interface Type         19.2    64    256   1544  2048

      V.28/V.24 (RS232-C/D)   4      -      -      -     -                  
      V.36/V.11 (RS422/RS449) 4      4      2      1     1
      V.10 (RS423)            4      4      -      -     -
      V.35                    4      4      2      1     1                   
      X.21 leased line        4      4      2      -     -                   

Adapter cables provide the necessary interchange circuits for each
synchronous line. Refer to the System Support Addendum for further
information on the required adapter cables. 

The DECrouter 2000 always requires an external clock source (such as a
modem). 

The additional requirements for operation of the DEC MicroServer with 
T1 and G.703 lines are as follows: 

^ The DEC MicroServer only supports clear channel interfaces.
  Connection to a T1 or G.703 line requires a V.35/RS422 to T1/G.703
  DSU/CSU converter to provide framing to meet CCITT G.704. The DEC
  MicroServer does not provide either T1 framing pulses or separate
  channels for 64K bits per second control data for G.703. 

  Note also that the DEC MicroServer does not guarantee line density.
  T1 links can offer only 1.536M bits per second or 1.344M bits per
  second data rates. 1.536M bits per second rates require the DSU/CSU
  converter to offer B8ZS and the line to accept bipolar violations.
  1.334M bits per second rates require the DSU/CSU converter to offer
  B7. 

^ Transmit clocking should be provided by the DCE, CCITT 114. The DEC
  MicroServer uses CCITT 114 to clock data out to the DTE, and will
  source a CCITT 113 transmit clock. CCITT 113 must be used by the DCE
  to receive the transmit data. The DEC MicroServer implements CCITT 
  113 as a buffered version of CCITT 114. This clocking scheme is necessary 
  to ensure network synchronization and minimize skew between the clock 
  and data. 

Installation and Configuration

The DECrouter 2000 has no file storage of its own, and so relies on
host systems to load the software.

The minimum requirement is for one host to load the DEC MicroServer.
The DECrouter 2000 software can be installed on a number of load
hosts. This helps to protect against loss of service if a single load
host is unavailable, or unable to load the system for any other
reason. Each load host must be on the same LAN and preferably in the
same DECnet area as the DECrouter 2000. 

The network manager can create and modify the configuration databases
by using utilities on the load host. The configuration database is
loaded into the DECrouter 2000 during system initialization. 

System Management                                     

The manager controls the running system by using the DECnet Network
Control Program from any DECnet Phase IV node. For example, the
manager can use the utility from one of the systems on the LAN. 

The utility provides three basic functions:

^  Display statistics and error information for the DECrouter 2000 
   (for example, statistics on line usage or errors)

^  Control the DECrouter 2000 (for example, starting and stopping lines, 
   setting parameters, and loading the software)

^  Test the components of the network (for example, loop messages through   
   all or part of a communications path to isolate a defective component)

In addition, a separate utility available on VMS or MicroVMS load 
hosts, assists problem-solving by tracing information at various stages 
in its path through the DECrouter 2000.

Event-logging and dump reception facilities can be used at the
discretion of the customer. The product will attempt to dump to a
Phase IV node on the same LAN and reload automatically following a
system failure. 

Path Splitting 

If the costs are set appropriately, the DECrouter 2000 performs path
splitting. Note that routing cost is an arbitrary network management
parameter set by the network manager to control network traffic flow.
If the cost between the DECrouter 2000 and the destination node is the
same on multiple synchronous ports, then the DECrouter 2000 splits the
traffic across the ports.  As a result, higher data transfer rates and
higher reliability due to redundant paths are provided with the
DECrouter 2000. 

Performance

The actual packet rate will be less than that indicated by the
aggregate synchronous line speed, and is determined by such factors
as: 

^  Type of traffic (routing updates or data packets) and data rates

^  The path of messages through the DECrouter 2000 system (LAN-to-LAN, 
   synchronous-to-LAN, or synchronous-to-synchronous)

^  Communications line characteristics

^  Frequency and type of errors on the synchronous links

^  Network topology
 
^  Protocol overhead

PREREQUISITE SUPPORT

A Network Profile and DECnet Customer Support Plan covering all
intended network nodes and their support may be required by your
DIGITAL office. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 28.85.01-x).

DEC MicroServer as specified in the System Support Addendum. 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

For each VAX system acting as a load host or dump receiver:

^ VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System or 

^ ULTRIX-32 Operating System 

^ DECnet-VAX or DECnet-ULTRIX 

Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 28.85.01-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software License:  QL-VI8A*-**                                            
Software Media: QA-VI8AA-** for VMS and MicroVMS Operating Systems    
Software Media: QA-VI9AA-** for ULTRIX-32 Operating Systems               
Software Documentation: QA-VI8AA-GZ                                       
Software Product Services:  QT-VI8A*-**, QT-VI9A*-** 

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available
  licenses, services, and media refer to the appropriate price book. 

SOFTWARE LICENSING

You will need a separate license for each DEC MicroServer unit on
which you will be using the software product (except as otherwise
specified by DIGITAL). 

The licensing provisions of DIGITAL's Standard Terms and Conditions
provide in part that the software and any part thereof (but excluding
those parts specific to the load hosts) may be used only on the single
DEC MicroServer hardware unit on which the software is operated, but
may be copied, in whole or in part (with the proper inclusion of
DIGITAL's copyright notice and any proprietary notices on the
software) between multiple load hosts on the same LAN. 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available. For more information on 
these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

The DECrouter 2000 is warranted for use only with supported Phase III
and Phase IV DECnet products supplied by DIGITAL.  Any system
connected to one of the DECrouter 2000's synchronous link(s) must run a
current version of a DECnet Phase III/IV product using any supported
synchronous interface, but excluding a DMC11 device. 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software
Warranty Addendum. 


April 1989
BH-KP97B-TN


