
PRODUCT NAME:  VAXELN Ada V2.0                            SPD 27.22.04
                                                                          
DESCRIPTION                                                               
                                                                          
VAXELN  Ada    is  a  VMS  layered  product  for  developing  Ada  language
applications which run  in  a  standalone  or  embedded  environment on VAX
processors under the VAXELN real-time executive.                          
                                                                          
Typical VAXELN Ada applications  are  ones  in  which individual processors
have "dedicated" or otherwise predetermined  functions  and  are not needed
simultaneously for general computing, program development,  or  other  uses
for  which  a  general-purpose  operating  system  (e.g.     VMS)  is  more
appropriate.  Other uses are in "embedded" systems,  where the processor is
an integral part of a larger device and the  resources of a general-purpose
computer  system,  such  as  a disk, are not available.   Examples  include
industrial automation, workstations  designed  for a particular profession,
Ethernet server networks and robots.                                      
                                                                          
VAXELN Ada is especially  suited  to,  although  not  limited  to, creating
"real-time" applications;  that is,  applications  in  which  the  system's
response to external events is critical.    Such  applications  include the
typical scientific and industrial data processing situations  in  which the
computer's  operation  has to be precisely synchronized with  machines  and
special input/output devices.                                
                                                                          
VAXELN Ada applications are developed using VAX Ada and  the VAXELN Toolkit
on a host VMS system.  The resulting bootable, VAXELN-based Ada application  
is then moved  to  the  VAXELN  target  system using disk or tape media, an
Ethernet Local Area Network  (LAN)  link,  or programmable read-only memory
(PROM).   The application program  executes  on  the  target  system  as  a
dedicated system.  The network link  to  the host development system may be
used for remote debugging.          
                                                                          
Users are expected to  have  the  necessary  hardware  to provide both host
development and target execution environments.  Applications may not be run
in the development environment if they use any VAXELN-specific features.   
                                                                          
VAXELN Ada, in combination with VAX  Ada  and VAXELN, has been validated as
fully conforming to ANSI/MIL-STD-1815A-1983 (Reference Manual for  the  Ada
Programming Language) by the Ada Joint Program Office.            
                                                                          
System Features and Special Extensions                                    
                                                                          
o  VAXELN Ada applications are compiled with the Ada compiler supplied with
   the VAX Ada product.  The choice of target  system can be deferred until
   the application is linked.          

   VAXELN Ada supports all VAX Ada features except the following:
                                                                          
   1. Access  to  relative  and  indexed  organization files.  The VAX  Ada
      packages      RELATIVE_IO,    RELATIVE_MIXED_IO,    INDEXED_IO    and
      INDEXED_MIXED_IO are not supported.           
                                                                          
   2. Support of the VMS Asynchronous System Trap (AST) mechanism.
                                                                          
   3. Timeslicing.  VAXELN Ada tasks run until blocked or preempted.
                                                                          
o  Applications are  linked  using  the  program  library  manager  utility
   supplied with the  VAX  Ada product.  Each program library or sublibrary
   has a default target associated with it.  This default can be changed or
   overridden as desired.       
                                                                          
o  A high-level, fully-symbolic remote debugging  capability  is  provided.
   This feature requires that the user  has the optional DECnet-VAX license
   and an Ethernet Local Area Network link  between  the  host  and  target
   systems.    It  can  be  used  to  debug   remote  applications  from  a
   programmer's terminal on a VMS system.
                                                                          
   Support is included for:                                         
                                                                          
   1. Mixed Ada and non-Ada code                                   
                                                                          
   2. Packages                                                     
                                                                          
   3. Tasking programs                                             
                                                                          
   4. A user interface compatible with the VMS Debugger            
                                                                          
o  Integration with VAXELN real-time executive including:	          
                                                                          
   1. Conformance  to  the VAX Calling Standard, which allows Ada  code  to
      call and be called by code written in other languages,  as well as to
      call VAXELN system services and utility routines.

   2. The  ability  to  handle  exceptions  from  non-Ada code and generate
      exceptions to be handled by non-Ada code.           

   3. The ability  of  Ada-language applications to control custom devices,
      including the ability to write device drivers in Ada.
                                                                          
   4. The ability to  link  with  shared  images and access shared areas of
      memory between applications on the same target system.
                                                                          
   5. Tasks run as separate  VAXELN  processes  under control of the VAXELN
      scheduler, and can be combined with non-Ada processes and jobs in the
      same system.                       

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 27.22.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*                                       
                                                            
For systems using terminals: 
                                                            
VMS Operating System 
VAX Ada 
VAXELN Tool Kit 
DECnet-VAX
                                                            
For Workstations running VMS Workstation Software:                      

VMS Operating System                                                    
VMS Workstation Software                                                
VAX Ada 
VAXELN Tool Kit 
DECnet-VAX

*Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions
 of prerequisite software (SSA 27.22.04-x).


ORDERING INFORMATION     

                            
Software Licenses: QL-A97A*-**                                  
Software Media: QA-A97A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-A97AA-GZ
Software Product Services:  QT-A97A*-**

*Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
 services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This  software  is  furnished under the licensing  provisions  of  DIGITAL's
standard  Terms  and  Conditions.    For  more information  about  DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product  supports the VMS License Management Facility.  

License units for this product  are  allocated  on  a  CPU-capacity basis.  

For more information on the License Management  Facility,  refer to the VMS 
Operating System  Product  Description  (25.01.xx)  or  the    VMS   
Operating  System documentation set.

For  more information on DIGITAL's licensing policies,  contact  your  local
DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are  available  from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product  is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of
this SPD.


July 1989
AE-HJ47E-TE
