
 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC Ada, Version 3.0A                   SPD 26.60.13
                for OpenVMS VAX Systems
 
 DESCRIPTION

 This Software Product  Description  describes  both  of the following
 products:

 o  DEC Ada Version 3.0A for OpenVMS VAX Systems

 o  DEC Ada Version 3.0A  Professional  Development Option for OpenVMS
    VAX Systems

 DEC Ada is Digital Equipment Corporation's  validated  implementation
 of the full ANSI/MIL-STD-1815A-1983 Ada Language.    As  a  result of
 meeting  the  ANSI standard, DEC Ada also  conforms  to  the  Federal
 Information  Processing  Standard  (FIPS-119).  The DEC Ada  compiler
 runs  under  the  OpenVMS  Operating  System and generates optimized,
 shareable, and position-independent code.

 As a  native  mode  OpenVMS language, DEC Ada is integrated into  the
 OpenVMS common language environment.  All OpenVMS system services and
 utilities are thus available to programs written in DEC Ada.  DEC Ada
 supports the OpenVMS Record  Management  Services  (RMS)  sequential,
 relative,  and  indexed  file  organizations  and  associated  access
 methods.    DEC Ada programs can  invoke  modules  written  in  other
 OpenVMS languages.  Additionally, programs written in other languages
 can invoke DEC Ada modules.

 Ada is a powerful, general-purpose language that supports many modern
 programming practices.  The language was designed as the  result of a
 competition  sponsored  by  the  United States Department of Defense.
 The purpose  of the competition was to define a language suitable for
 programming-embedded computer systems.    Among  the requirements for
 the  language were features  that  would  reduce  software  costs  by
 increasing    maintainability,    evolvability,    reliability,   and
 portability.


                               DIGITAL                  January 1994
                                                         AE-EU91N-TE

 


 Ada meets these requirements by providing  a  modular  structure  for
 programs and allowing separate compilation of program  units, as well
 as  providing  strong typing, tasking, exception handling, and  other
 standard language features that are supported across implementations.
 Ada provides a number of features that make it suitable for a variety
 of applications from general systems to real-time applications.

 Ada Language Features

 o  Strong Typing -  An  object (variable) of a given type may take on
    only those values that  are  appropriate  to  that  type, and only
    certain predefined operations may be  performed  to  data  of that
    type.   Because type checking is  done  at  compile  time,  strong
    typing  ensures  that  any errors associated with  incorrect  data
    types are detected at compile time.

 o  Data  Abstraction  -  Also  known  as  information  hiding,   data
    abstraction hides  implementation  details  while  providing users
    with mechanisms for  using the implementation.  Abstraction allows
    the user to focus  on  important  characteristics  while  ignoring
    underlying details.  Ada provides  various  levels  of abstraction
    through features such as private data types and packages.

 o  Concurrent  Processing - For many applications,  it  is  important
    that a program be conceived of as  a  number  of  parallel, rather
    than serial activities.  Most high-order languages provide  little
    or no support for handling such parallel or concurrent activities;
    they  rely on facilities of the host operating system.   Ada  uses
    tasks to  allow  parallel  activities  to  be  programmed directly
    within the language.

 o  Separate Compilation - Ada's separate compilation feature allows a
    programmer to divide a  large  program into compilation units that
    may be compiled at different  times.  When a unit is compiled, the
    Ada  program  library manager records information about that  unit
    and  other  related  units.    This  feature  is  unlike  separate
    compilation  features   in  other  languages,  where  very  little
    information about separately compiled modules is maintained.






                                  2

 


 o  Generic Definitions -  A  generic  unit  is  a template from which
    specific instances can be  made  at  compile time.  In many cases,
    the logic of an algorithm or a set of operations is independent of
    the specific type of the values  being manipulated.  However, in a
    strongly typed language such as Ada, all  types must be defined at
    compile  time.   Generic definitions allow the user  to  define  a
    general algorithm or set of related operations, and then  create a
    specific instance of that algorithm or set of operations for  each
    type to which the algorithm or operations must apply.

 o  Exception  Handling -  In  many  operations,  especially  embedded
    computer systems, it is  critical that a system be able to recover
    quickly and efficiently from error  conditions.   Ada provides the
    ability to raise and handle exceptions.    It  includes predefined
    exceptions and also permits the user to  define  exceptions.  When
    an  exception  occurs  in  an  Ada program, normal  processing  is
    abandoned and control passes to the exception handler.

 DEC Ada Components and Special System-Related Features:

 o  DEC  Ada  fully  conforms  to  ANSI/MIL-STD-1815A-1983  (Reference
    Manual for the Ada Programming Language).

 o  DEC Ada includes  a  program library manager that provides support
    for programming teams through:

    -  Program libraries that can be shared by many programmers

    -  A powerful search list  model  for  program  libraries.    This
       permits the following:

       *  Program libraries that can be shared by many programmers

       *  Individual  programmers  can  establish different  views  of
          program library relationships

    -  Automatic recompilation of obsolete compilation units

    -  The ability to share compiled Ada  code  either by reference or
       copy




                                  3

 

 o  High-level,   fully  symbolic  debugging  capability  through  the
    OpenVMS debugger, including support for:

    -  Mixed Ada and non-Ada code

    -  Packages

    -  Tasking programs

 o  Strongly-typed  Ada  bindings  which  provide  interfaces  for the
    following versions of X Windows System[TM] and Motif[R] routines:

    -  X Window System Version 11R4 and Motif Version 1.1

    -  X Window System Version 11R5 and Motif Version 1.2

 o  Integration with OpenVMS VAX Operating System including:

    -  Conformance  to  the OpenVMS VAX Calling Standard, which allows
       Ada  code  to  call  and  be  called  by  code written in other
       languages, as well  as  to call OpenVMS system services and the
       OpenVMS VAX run-time library

    -  The  ability to call  Open  Record  Management  Services  (RMS)
       routines directly

    -  Full access to relative and indexed file capabilities

    -  The ability to handle exceptions from non-Ada code and generate
       exceptions to be handled by non-Ada code

    -  The ability to handle OpenVMS asynchronous system traps (ASTs)

    -  The ability to link with shared  images  and  use shared global
       sections
 
    -  The  ability  to share data with non-Ada  code  through  global
       variables and psects (common blocks)

 o  System-dependent  Facilities  -  Different  systems  vary  in such
    characteristics as the size of storage units, memory size, and the
    smallest  and  largest integer values supported.  DEC Ada provides
    the predefined  package  SYSTEM to define system-related constants
    and to represent system-dependent information.

                                  4

 

 o  DEC Ada also provides representation clauses, which allow the user
    to tailor the representation of data to suit a particular system.

 o  DEC Ada provides:

    -  Length clauses, which specify  the amount of storage associated
       with a type

    -  Enumeration representation clauses, which specify  the internal
       codes for the literals of enumeration types

    -  Record representation clauses, which specify the  layout  of  a
       record type, such as the order, position,  and  size  of record
       components

    -  Address  clauses,  which  specify required addresses in storage
       for constants and variables

 o  DEC  Ada  provides a number of pragmas (compiler directives)  that
    allow various system-related parameters to be set and changed, and
    control mixed-language programming.

 o  DEC  Ada  provides comprehensive  diagnostic  messages,  including
    automatic syntax error correction, directed at helping the new Ada
    user.

 DEC Ada Professional Development Option for OpenVMS VAX Systems

 The DEC Ada Professional Development Option  is a separately licensed
 option that is available with DEC Ada on OpenVMS  VAX  Systems.   The
 DEC  Ada  Professional  Development  Option  includes  the  following
 capabilities:

 o  Smart Recompilation - This  feature  can  significantly reduce the
    number of recompilations that are needed to rebuild an Ada program
    after some compilation units change.   Smart  recompilation allows
    the  compiler  to  propagate  changes  quickly through  a  system,
    eliminating up to 100% of the usual recompilations.

 o  Program  Library  File-Block Caching - This feature minimizes  the
    actual amount of disk input-output that must be performed by using
    an in-memory cache of file blocks.  As a result,  the elapsed time
    for compilations is significantly reduced.


                                  5

 

 o  Multilevel Program Library Directory Structure - This feature uses
    a more efficient  program  library  directory structure to improve
    the  performance  of access  to  large  program  libraries  during
    compilation.

 The DEC Ada Professional Development Option is designed so that it is
 compatible  with  libraries  that  are created without  the  DEC  Ada
 Professional Development Option and libraries created with a previous
 version of DEC Ada.  Once a multilevel program  library  is  created,
 Ada  programmers  do  not  need  to  change any of their  development
 procedures  in  order  to  benefit  from  the  DEC  Ada  Professional
 Development Option.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or  hardware  configuration  as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 26.60.13-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System


 DECthreads is a  multithreading,  run-time  library included with the
 OpenVMS  VAX  Operating  System.    The  use  of  DECthreads  in  Ada
 applications  is not supported.   Ada  code  cannot  call  DECthreads
 routines  nor  can non-Ada code that  calls  DECthreads  routines  be
 utilized.

 Refer  to  the  System  Support  Addendum  (SSA    26.60.13-x)    for
 availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional software,
 and for information regarding components of OpenVMS DECwindows.













                                  6



 ORDERING INFORMATION

 DEC Ada for OpenVMS VAX Systems

 Software Licenses
    Personal Use: QL-056AA-2B
    Concurrent Use: QL-056AA-3B
    Unlimited System Use: QL-056A*-**
 Software Media: QA-056A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-056AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-056A*-**

 DEC Ada Professional Development Option for
 OpenVMS VAX Systems

 Software Licenses
    Personal Use: QL-0VQAA-2B
    Concurrent Use: QL-0VQAA-3B
    Unlimited System Use: QL-0VQA*-**
 Read Before Installation Letter: QA-0VQAA-GZ

 Note:   The  Read  Before  Installation  Letter (QA-0VQAA-GZ) MUST BE
 ORDERED with all licenses for DEC Ada Professional Development Option
 for OpenVMS VAX Systems (NO COST).

 The DEC Ada Professional  Development  Option for OpenVMS VAX Systems
 binaries  are  provided  with the  DEC  Ada  binaries  (QA-056A*-**).
 Purchase of a DEC Ada Professional Development Option for OpenVMS VAX
 Systems License (QL-0VQA*-**) enables use of this capability.

 *  Denotes variant fields.  For additional information  on  available
    licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions  of Digital
 Equipment  Corporation's  Standard  Terms  and  Conditions.  For more
 information about  Digital's  licensing  terms  and policies, contact
 your local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facility.


                                  7

 

 License units for these products are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use plus Personal and Concurrent Use basis.

 Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
 layered  product.    Each  Concurrent  Use  license  allows  any  one
 individual to use the layered product.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS  VAX Operating System Product Description (SPD  25.01.xx)  or
 the OpenVMS VAX Operating System documentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available.   For  more  information,
 contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty  for this software product is provided by Digital  with  the
 purchase  of  a  license for the product as defined in  the  Software
 Warranty Addendum of this SPD.


 [R]Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation, Inc.

 [TM]X Windows System is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute of
     Technology.

 [TM]The DIGITAL  Logo, DEC, DEC Ada, DEC Ada Professional Development
     Option, DECthreads, DECwindows,  Digital,  OpenVMS,  and  VAX are
     trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

 ©1994 Digital Equipment Corporation. All Rights Reserved.












                                  8

