 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.2               SPD 27.55.07

 DESCRIPTION

 VAX DOCUMENT is a style-based, batch-oriented, document composition
 system. It is designed to aid OpenVMS users in the production of sin-
 gle manuals, large documentation sets, or specifications, and it sup-
 ports hardcopy and online output. VAX DOCUMENT runs on a wide range
 of Digital Equipment Corporation configurations, including VAXclus-
 ters. It can be used from any of Digital's standard terminals, and it
 can create files for hardcopy output to any Digital line printer or
 laser printer, or Bookreader files for online viewing on a DECwindows
 workstation.

 VAX DOCUMENT provides a complete, high-end documentation product that
 automates the production of large, format-intensive, technical doc-
 umentation - from the first entry of written material to the final out-
 put of formatted hardcopy or online documentation. VAX DOCUMENT is de-
 signed for use by members of the team of people who contribute to a
 technical document during its life cycle: engineers, writers, editors,
 or final production specialists. Facilities are provided to create,
 maintain, revise, format, and print complex technical documents ef-
 ficiently. This provides greater control over the entire documenta-
 tion process while reducing time-to-market and costs.

 Features

 Generic Markup Language

 VAX DOCUMENT uses a device-independent generic markup language for en-
 tering source text and markup instructions into ASCII text files. Us-
 ing any OpenVMS editor, the writer creates a documentation source file,
 enters the text, and inserts markup commands (tags) that label the text

                               DIGITAL                  January 1993

                                                         AE-KN49J-TE

 

 elements. Text elements determine the structure of the document and
 refer to such things as headers, lists, or tables.

 The markup tags have no specific formatting information. VAX DOCUMENT
 stores the formatting information in a separate file that is used when
 the documentation source file is processed.

 Markup tags enable the writer to include graphic files in the final
 output document. VAX DOCUMENT supports Sixel graphic files for the LN03
 or LN03 PLUS printers and PostScript[R] graphic files for the LPS40 or
 LN03R printers. PostScript graphic files must conform to the Encap-
 sulated PostScript File Format published by Adobe[R] Systems Incorpo-
 rated.

 The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor can be used in conjunction with VAX
 DOCUMENT to simplify the creation of documentation source files and
 to debug the markup code interactively.

 Multiple Document Designs and Styles

 VAX DOCUMENT supports a variety of document types and designs. The doc-
 ument type refers to the structure and text elements associated with
 a particular document, for example a user manual, military specifi-
 cation, or letter. A design denotes a variation in the style of a doc-
 ument type and refers to such elements as running heads, running feet,
 and the typefaces and sizes for titles, headings, and notes. VAX DOC-
 UMENT provides document types and designs for:

 o  SOFTWARE - The SOFTWARE document type can be used for producing user
    manuals containing software-specific information. This document type
    provides many software-specific features such as: a set of tags to
    draw keypad diagrams, a set of tags to format system messages, and
    a structured set of tags (called templates) to document software
    commands, routines, and programming language statements. VAX DOC-
    UMENT also provides a design for specifications, as well as designs
    that are similar to those that Digital uses to produce its own doc-
    umentation.



                                  2

 

 o  MILITARY SPECIFICATIONS - The MILSPEC document type can be used for
    producing military specifications according to military standards.
    It includes a front page with a title and subtitle, a two-column
    list of signatures, and a listing of information about the spec-
    ification.

    A design is provided to produce documents requiring security clas-
    sifications, numbering of figures and tables by section number, 20
    heading levels, one- to four-line running titles, single-line run-
    ning feet, and the ability to use proportionally spaced fonts within
    code examples. This design is available in double-spaced format for
    draft documents.

 o  MANUALS - The MANUAL document type can be used for documenting chapter-
    oriented material such as a book. VAX DOCUMENT provides designs for
    primer, guide, and reference manuals.

 o  OVERHEADS - The OVERHEADS document type lets the user produce over-
    head slides for transparencies or camera-ready masters for 35mm slides.
    This document type provides features specific to presentation slides,
    such as automatic numbering of slides, title, topic, running heads
    and feet, and the capability to control the size of text.

 o  LETTERS - The LETTER document type can be used for producing a per-
    sonal or business letter, or interoffice memos. The doctype includes
    markup tags for an inside and outside address, salutation, clos-
    ing, and enclosures.

 o  ARTICLES - The ARTICLE document type provides many tags specific
    to articles, such as author information, back notes, bibliography
    reference sections, and an acknowledgment section. The design is
    in two-column format in 8 1/2 inch x 11 inch page size.

 o  REPORTS - The REPORT document type provides features useful for pro-
    ducing chapter-oriented material (such as a book) or nonchapter-
    oriented material (such as a report or a study). It includes a front
    page with lines for signoff signatures, outlining tags, and the ca-
    pability to control numbered or unnumbered heads, running heads and
    running feet, and sequential or chapter-oriented page numbering.
    Designs are provided for two-column text and for text that uses the
    full page width.

                                  3

 

 o  ONLINE Doctypes - The online doctypes provide features to support
    the creation of online documentation to be viewed with the DECwin-
    dows Bookreader. VAX DOCUMENT supports the BOOKREADER destination
    and includes the following online doctypes:

       MANUAL.ONLINE
       SOFTWARE.ONLINE
       MILSPEC.ONLINE

       Note: VAX DOCUMENT offers the online MILSPEC doctype that emu-
       lates DoD standards on the Bookreader. This doctype is not a DoD
       standard, but only an online representation of the above stan-
       dards.

       Customizable Document Designs and Styles

 The system administrator or book designer can customize the document
 types and/or designs provided with VAX DOCUMENT. Although the user can-
 not change the fundamental layout of most text elements, a variety of
 design parameters can be changed. These include:

 o  Parameters that control basic page dimensions

 o  Fonts for text elements

 o  Vertical spacing around text elements

 o  Rule thickness

 o  Default text for element identifiers

 In addition, the positioning of certain text elements, such as fig-
 ure captions, can be changed.

 Refer to the VAX DOCUMENT documentation for a complete list of Dig-
 ital supported modifications to document types and designs.

 Page Composition and Pagination Software


                                  4

 

 VAX DOCUMENT provides a powerful and sophisticated text formatter. These
 capabilities include:

 o  Automatic numbering of headings, sections, lists, sublists, chap-
    ters, appendices

 o  Automatic pagination with page numbering

 o  Running headers and footers

 o  Footnotes

 o  Hyphenation and justification (right-justified or ragged-right)

 o  Complex multi-page tables and figures

 o  Multi-column output

 o  Horizontal rules, revision (change) bars, and update pages

 o  Automatic generation of table of contents and index

 o  Automatic cross referencing

 o  Kerning and variable leading

 o  Full multi-national character set

 o  Formatting of complex mathematical equations, from simple in-line
    equations to complex matrices

 Complete Bookbuilding Facilities

 VAX DOCUMENT contains software for processing a set of files to build
 an entire book, including a table of contents and index. The infor-
 mation required to build a book is contained in a user-created generic
 markup file that lists the names, the location, and the sequence of
 all the files.

 High Quality Output

 VAX DOCUMENT can be used to produce high-quality output with merged
 text and graphics for printing on the LN03, LN03 PLUS, LN03R, LPS20,
 LPS40, the DEClaser 1000, 2000, 3200, and 3500 family of printers, or
 for online viewing on a DECwindows workstation.

                                  5

 

 PostScript output is produced by taking advantage of the fonts res-
 ident in the LN03R and LPS40 printers.

 Fonts for the LN03 and LN03 PLUS printers are available from the DCS
 Library.

 Monospaced Output

 VAX DOCUMENT can produce output for printing or displaying on any Dig-
 ital character-cell terminal and monospaced line printer.

 Enhanced HELP Capabilities

 VAX DOCUMENT includes DCL HELP for SDML tags and context-sensitive SDML
 HELP in LSE.

 Sophisticated Art-Generating Capabilities

 VAX DOCUMENT supports the creation of graphics for compound documents
 and online documentation using the VAX DOCUMENT graphics editor. The
 VAX DOCUMENT graphics editor runs on a DECwindows workstation allow-
 ing text and graphics to be created and maintained separately. The graph-
 ics editor includes the following features:

 o  A DECwindows-based user interface to a comprehensive set of object-
    oriented graphics creation and editing functions.

 o  Full color capabilities.

 o  Screen capture and annotation.

 o  Viewer capability for rapid scanning of graphics files.

 o  Can submit graphics for hardcopy printing or inclusion in online
    documents.

 o  Provides a user-extendable clip-art library.

 o  The graphics editor can create the following types of file images:

    -  CDA DDIF images (import and export)

    -  Sixel (import and export)

                                  6

 

    -  Bookreader format (import and export)

    -  PostScript (export)

    -  Xbitmap (import)

 VAX DOCUMENT enhancements include:

 o  Support of Adobe standards for PostScript coding as defined in the
    second edition of the PostScript Language Reference Manual.

 o  Enhancements to the Digitize function that allow the retention of
    the 3D effect of Motif[R] screens when captured from color worksta-
    tions.

 o  A Redigitize function that allows for the recapturing of the same
    area of the screen that was captured by the previous Digitize op-
    eration.

 o  Monochrome systems can now be used to display, create, and edit color
    drawings; the colors are displayed as monochrome halftones.

 o  The Graphics Editor View now accepts color DDIF and Sixel images
    for display.

 o  The Graphics Editor V2.2-Motif now provides the ability to include
    EPS objects and can also produce EPS output files that may be pro-
    cessed to produce color separations using Adobe Color Separator.

 o  The color selection mechanism has been extended to include a CMYK
    slider. There are now three ways to select a color: RGB sliders,
    CMYK sliders, and Color Name List.

 o  Version 2.2 supports the IMPORTing of Encapsulated PostScript (EPS)
    files for inclusion in a drawing.

 o  VAX DOCUMENT V2.2 allows for the installation of either of two ver-
    sions of the Graphics editor, or of neither. One version uses the
    DECwindows (XUI) user interface; the other uses the DECwindows/Motif
    (Motif) user interface.

                                  7

 

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configuration as specified in the System Sup-
 port Addendum (SSA 27.55.07-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 o  VMS DECwindows (included with the OpenVMS VAX Operating System)

    Note: VMS DECwindows must be installed to use the VAX DOCUMENT Graph-
    ics Editor and associated graphics components.

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.55.07-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-VEEA*-**
 Software Media: QA-VEEA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-VEEAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VEEA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

                                  8

 

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

 Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
 layered product.

 Each Concurrent Use License allows any one individual at a time to use
 the layered product.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
 ing System documentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 

 [R]  Adobe and PostScript are registered trademarks of Adobe Systems
    Incorporated.

 [R]  Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, Bookreader, CDA, CI, DEC, DEClaser, DECwin-
    dows, Digital, LN03, LN03 PLUS, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, TK, VAX,
    VAXcluster, VAX DOCUMENT, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS,
    and XUI are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.




                                  9
