 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECprint Supervisor for KODAK® Printers for OpenVMS VAX
 SPD 48.24.00                Version 1.0

 DESCRIPTION

 DECprint Supervisor for KODAK Printers (KPS) is a layered software prod-
 uct that runs on OpenVMS systems to provide access to the KODAK 1392
 Model 44 production print system. The KODAK 1392 Model 44 is a high-
 speed, high-volume Level 2 PostScript® printer that can print at speeds
 up to 92 pages per minute and can produce more than one million pages
 per month. DECprint Supervisor provides a networked printing solution
 that complements the KODAK 1392 Model 44's power with features con-
 sistent with other Digital printing solutions.

 DECprint Supervisor for KODAK Printers for OpenVMS provides advanced
 high-speed printing with the KODAK 1392 Model 44 production print sys-
 tem in Digital's OpenVMS environment. This solution is well suited for
 printing:

 o  High-speed, high-volume cut-sheet documents

 o  High-quality complex documents with a mix of text and graphics

 o  One- or two-sided documents on a demand print basis

 o  Insurance policies, benefits summaries, invoices, and other high-
    volume, time-critical print jobs

 This product is designed as a companion to the DECprint Supervisor (DCPS)
 for OpenVMS family of products. It provides advanced printing features
 of DCPS-Plus to users of the KODAK 1392 Model 44. See SPD 44.15.xx for
 more information about the DECprint Supervisor (DCPS) family of prod-
 ucts, which is sold, licensed, and packaged separately.

 Popular User Interfaces

                               DIGITAL                     June 1993

                                                         AE-PZ7QA-TE

 

 DECprint Supervisor for KODAK Printers supports printing of complex
 pages, forms and graphics through standard OpenVMS interfaces such as
 the DCL PRINT command and the DECwindows Print Widget. Many printing
 features are available to users of Microsoft® Windows[TM] through Dig-
 ital's PATHWORKS for DOS product, and Macintosh® computers through Dig-
 ital's PATHWORKS for Macintosh products.

 Components

 DECprint Supervisor for KODAK Printers software consists of the fol-
 lowing components:

 o  A print symbiont that processes print requests from the host on which
    it resides

 o  Communications software to transmit the request and associated data
    over the Ethernet to a remote printer via a TCP/IP network connec-
    tion

 o  Device control modules that provide access to several of the printer's
    unique capabilities

 o  Startup procedures

 o  Online help

 o  Example procedures and commands

 o  Installation procedure

 o  Installation verification program

 o  Information set for users, printer operators, and system managers

 These components are delivered to a customer as a standard software
 product manufactured by the Software Supply Business (SSB). Access to
 the product is controlled through a QL license model number, a Prod-
 uct Authorization Key (PAK), and Digital's License Management Facil-
 ity (LMF).

 Features

                                  2

 

 DECprint Supervisor for KODAK Printers supports a large feature set,
 based on the advanced printing features of the DCPS-Plus product with
 printer-specific extensions:

 o  Easy-to-use number-up capability allows users to combine several
    pages per sheet, reducing paper use and printer click charges

 o  Layup definition capability, allowing users to specify specialized
    page layout modules when printing documents

 o  Multiple collated document originals, using printer's ability to
    replicate documents efficiently

 o  Access to printer's finishing capabilities, such as stapling, print-
    ing covers, and inserting separator sheets between job sets

 o  Compatibility with Digital's DCPS, DQS, and PATHWORKS products

 o  Compatibility with KODAK LIONHEART® Client Services Software for
    Microsoft Windows and Macintosh systems

 o  Communications via industry-standard TCP/IP network protocols and
    an easy-to-manage Ethernet connection

 o  User notification of printer, queue, and job status

 Printing Features

 o  PostScript printing. The print symbiont passes PostScript files di-
    rectly to the printer. DECprint Supervisor does not interpret or
    translate PostScript files. Therefore, they must be created using
    standard PostScript Level 1 or Level 2 operators as defined within
    the KODAK 1392 Model 44 printer.

 o  Native device printing, for passing preprocessed printer-ready files
    to the KODAK 1392 Model 44 printer

 o  DEC ANSI (PPL3) printing. DECprint Supervisor translates DEC ANSI
    (PPL3) files into PostScript for printing on the output device. These
    ANSI files may contain ASCII text, sixel graphics, and other fea-
    tures of Digital's ANSI-compliant Printing Protocol Level 3 (PPL3).

                                  3

 

 o  Selection of media via MEDIA_DEFAULT, PAGE_MEDIA_SELECT, INPUT_TRAY,
    parameters, and output tray via OUTPUT_TRAY, within the limitations
    of the printer and the tray-naming conventions to provide such fea-
    tures.

 o  Rotation of the page via the PAGE_ORIENTATION parameter for non-
    PostScript files only

 o  Selection of single-sided, double-sided, or tumble via the SIDES
    parameter

 o  Formatting of ANSI text files via the /HEADER, /FORM, /SPACE, and
    /FEED qualifiers and the TAB parameter

 o  Control of ANSI file margins, page setup, and wrap or truncate op-
    tions as specified by the DEFINE/FORM commands

 o  Printing ANSI files with optional fonts via the FONTS_USED param-
    eter. (The optional fonts are available as a separately orderable
    SoftFonts kit.)

 o  Status and error messages sent to the user's terminal, printed on
    the job trailer page or job log page, written to a log file, or printed
    on the operator's console

 o  Use of device control modules for basic data types via the /SETUP
    qualifier. PostScript modules may contain any PostScript operators
    supported by the printer in the printing context.

 o  Accounting information for each print job as follows: the number
    of RMS Gets, and the number of QIO Writes. Number of sheets and im-
    ages printed are available by way of an offline utility program.

 o  Printing non-PostScript data types. Translators provided by the DCPS
    product translate the following data types into PostScript for print-
    ing:

    -  DDIF (Bitonal Image subset only)

    -  PCL Level 4 (as implemented on the HP® LaserJet® IID)

    -  IBM® Proprinter® XL24

    -  ReGIS

                                  4

 

    -  TEKTRONIX® 4010/4014

 o  Automatic data type detection and switching. The software attempts
    to determine the data type of the file. If successful, it will au-
    tomatically translate and print the file. If it cannot determine
    the file data type, it will begin in the default data type defined
    by DATA_TYPE=AUTOMATIC and switch to PostScript printing if PostScript
    code is encountered within the file. This switch occurs no more than
    once per file.

 o  Specifying page layup features via the LAYUP_DEFINITION parameter.
    Page layup features include Borders, Margins, Margin Alternation,
    Pages Per Sheet, First Page, Page Order, and Page Grid. Layup def-
    inition options may be provided directly, as arguments to the LAYUP_
    DEFINITION parameter, or indirectly, as the contents of a file spec-
    ified by that parameter.

 o  Printing two or more page images on a single side of a sheet via
    the NUMBER_UP parameter

 o  Specifying a range of pages of the file to be printed via the PAGE_
    LIMIT parameter

 o  Automatically scaling a page created for one paper size so that it
    fits on a different paper size via use of both the PAGE_SIZE and
    SHEET_SIZE parameters on the same print command

 o  Use of device control modules for all data types via the /SETUP qual-
    ifier. PostScript modules may contain any PostScript operators sup-
    ported by the printer in the printing context. ANSI modules may in-
    clude control sequences; PCL modules may include binary font data.

 o  Specifying covers, stapling, and separator sheets, using FINISH-
    ING_STEPS parameter






                                  5

 

 DEC ANSI PPL3 (LN03 and DEClaser) Emulation

 Printing of ANSI text and sixel graphics is compatible with Digital's
 ANSI-compliant PPL3 printers (LN03 and the DEClaser family). Documents
 containing PPL3 font cartridge commands will be printed if the sys-
 tem has the appropriate optional SoftFonts kits installed, and the op-
 tional font modules are specified with the FONTS_USED parameter.

 Note: Like other PostScript printers, the KODAK 1392 Model 44 printer
 has a limited amount of virtual memory available for printing and font
 storage. Files which require downloading of fonts may be printed dif-
 ferently, or may fail to print.

 INSTALLATION

 Only customers with knowledge of OpenVMS generic and execution print
 queues in clustered and nonclustered environments should attempt in-
 stallation of this software product.

 Digital recommends that all other customers purchase Digital Instal-
 lation Services. These services provide for the installation of the
 software product and Digital PostScript printer hardware by an expe-
 rienced Digital Specialist.

 Before installation of the software by Digital Installation Services,
 the customer must:

 o  obtain, install, and demonstrate as operational any equipment and
    facilities necessary to interface to Digital's communications equip-
    ment; and

 o  make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed
    upon by Digital and the customer, all hardware, communication fa-
    cilities, and terminals that are to be used during installation.

 Installation of DECprint Supervisor for KODAK Printers software will
 consist of the following:

 o  verification that all prerequisite software and hardware has been
    installed;

                                  6

 

 o  verification that a complete set of DECprint Supervisor software
    media and documentation has been received;

 o  verification that all hardware and software prerequisites have been
    met and the equipment is operational;

 o  installation of DECprint Supervisor software on one system;

 o  verification that DECprint Supervisor software has been correctly
    installed by running the Installation Verification Procedure;

 o  modification of the UCX hosts database to add printer node names
    and addresses; and

 o  modification of the OpenVMS startup files to automate the start up
    of print queues.

 Should a Digital Specialist be required to modify the previously in-
 stalled software parameters, a separate time and materials charge will
 apply.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 48.24.xx-x). At least one KODAK 1392 Model 44
 printer is required.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System or Desktop-VMS Software

 o  DECprint Supervisor (DCPS) for OpenVMS VAX (SPD 44.15.xx)

 o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS VAX (SPD 25.A4.xx)

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 48.24.xx-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

                                  7

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses:
    DECprint KPS V/V TRAD LIC: QL-0WEA9-AA
 Software Media and Documentation:
    DECprint KPS V/V TK50 KIT: QA-0WEAA-H5
 Software Documentation:
    DECprint KPS V/V DOC KIT: QA-0WEAA-GZ

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

    This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Dig-
    ital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more
    information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact
    your local Digital office.

 The license permits execution of the DECprint Supervisor for KODAK Print-
 ers software on a single node for purposes of providing advanced print-
 ing features on a single KODAK 1392 Model 44 printer.

 License Management Facility

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

 License units for this product are allocated on an unlimited System
 Use basis. Unlimited System Use is an umbrella term used to describe
 the set of license offerings. License types included under this um-
 brella are Traditional and Clusterwide.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.






                                  8

 

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD only when the product is used to drive a KODAK
 1392 Model 44 printer.
 eightpointss

 ®  Apple, LaserWriter, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of
    Apple Computer, Inc.

 ®  KODAK and LIONHEART are registered trademarks of Eastman Kodak
    Company.

 ®  HP, LaserJet, and PCL are registered trademarks of Hewlett-
    Packard Company.

 ®  IBM and Proprinter are registered trademarks of International
    Business Machines Corporation.

 ®  MS, MS-DOS, and Microsoft are registered trademarks of Mi-
    crosoft Corporation.

 ®  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

 ®  TEKTRONIX is a registered trademark of Tektronix, Inc.

 [TM]Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, DEC, DEClaser, DECprint, DECwindows, Digi-
    tal, LN03, OpenVMS, TK, VAX, and VMS are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.








                                  9
