
 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  ObjectBroker for OpenVMS, Version 2.5        SPD 44.12.01

 DESCRIPTION

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS (VAX and AXP) Version 2.5 provides applica-
 tion developers and system integrators with the development tools and
 run-time environments to integrate applications and services distributed
 across UNIX[R] environments (OSF/1[R], ULTRIX, SunOS[TM], HP-UX[R],
 IBM[R] AIX[R]), Microsoft[R] Windows[TM], Macintosh[R], and Windows
 NT[TM] (AXP and Intel[TM]).

 ObjectBroker Version 2.5 is Digital's compliant implementation of the
 Object Management Group's (OMG[R]) Common Object Request Broker Ar-
 chitecture (CORBA[TM]) V1.2 specification.

 ObjectBroker simplifies distributed application development by pro-
 viding platform-independent, client/server, programming interfaces.
 It offers an object-oriented (O-O) approach to dynamic linking of in-
 dependently developed applications and services. ObjectBroker allows
 application processes to transparently invoke, control, and interact
 with each other across multiple platforms.

 Features

 o  A single high-level, standards-based application programming in-
    terface (API) across 11 platforms.

 o  Compliant with OMG's CORBA V1.2 specification, protecting users'
    software development investments.



                               DIGITAL                September 1994

                                                         AE-Q9KMA-TE



 o  OLE Integration (known as OLE Portal) and DDE Integration (known
    as DDE listener) provides shrink-wrapped and custom desktop appli-
    cations that comply with the Microsoft OLE and DDE interfaces. De-
    velopers can use the OLE Portal and DDE listener features today to
    begin moving toward open client/server environments.

 o  Script Servers allow client access to existing applications using
    command line interfaces, with no source changes necessary, facil-
    itating the migration to client/server computing.

 o  O-O abstraction provides insulation of clients and servers from changes
    in network topology or application code through the use of implementation-
    independent brokering services.

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS, Version 2.5 Capabilities

 o  Interface Definition Language (IDL) for describing classes and mes-
    sages

 o  Support for User Defined Types (UDT)

 o  Generation of client-side stubs for operations defined on one or
    more interfaces:

    -  Static interfaces use code skeletons (stubs) containing routines
       that cannot be changed. Stubs provide a linear interface and re-
       duce the complexity of the method resolution.

    -  Dynamic interfaces use routines that the client defines and builds
       as it is running. The dynamic interface provides client with more
       flexibility to use deferred synchronous operations, different
       method maps, and new interfaces.

 o  Generation of IDL skeletons (dispatchers), registration routines,
    and method routine stubs for servers

 o  Support for the Dynamic Invocation Interface (DII) routines

 Interface Repository

                                  2



 The interface repository is a storage container for the definitions
 of interfaces, operations, and attributes which a client can use to
 make requests of the Object Request Broker (ORB). The interface repos-
 itory can also contain method maps, which describe the criteria by which
 to select implementations. The interface definitions in the Interface
 Repository are written in CORBA IDL, which is described in the CORBA
 V1.2 specification and in ObjectBroker documentation.

 Context Object

 A context object contains information about a user's preferences which
 are taken into account during the method resolution process, and about
 property values, which are propagated to the server-side during an in-
 vocation request. In addition, applications can store profile infor-
 mation in the context object that is not used as method resolution cri-
 teria.

 Agent

 The agent is the entity provided as part of ObjectBroker V2.5 which
 performs services on behalf of a user in the context of ObjectBroker.
 An agent must be present on any host which will be supporting appli-
 cations which are providing services using ObjectBroker.

 Script Server

 The Script Server is a special ObjectBroker server process which al-
 lows legacy applications to be encapsulated as object implementations.
 The Script Server allows applications which export a command line in-
 terface to be used as object implementations. Client applications have
 no knowledge that an object's implementation is actually implemented
 as a script.








                                  3



 Security Registry

 The Security Registry contains information about a user's authoriza-
 tion to access specific implementations (method servers) and methods.
 The implementations and methods referenced by the Security Database
 must be implementations and methods which are registered in the Im-
 plementation Registry. Information about the Agent is the only excep-
 tion to this policy. This is because the Agent and its methods are en-
 tities which are well known to the ORB.

 A user's authorization information is maintained in the form of an Ac-
 cess Control List (ACL). This list contains the information about what
 methods of an implementation a user is allowed to access. Therefore,
 in order for a user to start a server, the user must have access to
 the StartServer method of the Agent; this is the default. Failure to
 have this access restricts a user from starting any new servers.

 Along with authorization information for users, the Security Database
 also contains information which describes the list of remote users that
 are allowed to access ObjectBroker on the current host. This infor-
 mation allows system administrators to specify a mapping between a user
 on a remote host and a local user account. This allows for remote users
 to access server applications on the local hosts which are not avail-
 able to the general populous.

 Advertisement Registry

 Advertisements are the primary source of information to both a client
 application and the ORB Core. A client application can retrieve ini-
 tial objects from the advertisement registry.

 ObjectBroker's advertisement registry stores information about a server,
 where to find them, and what they provide. Advertisements are created
 when an implementation is installed somewhere on the network. The gen-
 erated advertisement can be distributed at any time to remote adver-
 tisement registries.

 Implementation Registry


                                  4

 

 The implementation registry contains information about object imple-
 mentations which have been installed on this host. At a minimum, the
 implementation registry contains the unique identifier of the imple-
 mentation, the operating system specific command for starting the server
 process which contains the implementation code, and the list of at-
 tributes which are defined as environment variables when the process
 that will execute the implementation is started.

































                                  5

 

 Configuration Registry

 The configuration registry contains information about the configura-
 tion of ObjectBroker on a given node. Configuration information stored
 in the configuration registry includes the list of available trans-
 ports, the authentication package to be used, and the location of files
 that contain the various implementations for the transport, security,
 and repository replaceable components. The configuration registry in-
 cludes the list of locations for shared resources such as context ob-
 jects, advertisements, and repositories.

 Digital Extensions to the CORBA specification are not required
 by an application but provide additional capabilities. These
 extensions include:

 Languages

 o  The Implementation Language (IML) describes methods and method servers
    that constitute the implementation of an object.

 o  The Method Mapping Language (MML) maps operations to the methods
    that implement them.

 ObjectBroker Utility Graphical User Interface provides a new, fully
 supported, windowed set of utilities that help system integrators man-
 age the CORBA environment and programmers develop new distributed ap-
 plications. The utility provides interfaces that:

 o  View and manipulate context objects, repositories, and remote servers

 o  Generate code for programmers

 o  Set up the environment (security, proxies, transport)

 The user interface of each utility is based on CORBA concepts. The util-
 ity's interface is native to the platform on which it is executing (Mo-
 tif[R], Windows, Macintosh).

 OLE and DDE

                                  6



 ObjectBroker Version 2.5 works cooperatively with Microsoft's Object
 Linking and Embedding (OLE) to provide a network "portal" from Microsoft
 Windows platforms to ObjectBroker server platforms. ObjectBroker ap-
 plications on UNIX and OpenVMS systems can be made OLE-aware (by im-
 plementing a set of predefined OLE methods shipped with ObjectBroker)
 and will respond to requests from OLE applications on Microsoft Win-
 dows.

 The ObjectBroker-OLE portal processes OLE API calls on the PC and maps
 them to messages. These messages are then sent to an appropriate Ob-
 jectBroker server on the network for resolution. From a user's per-
 spective, the mapping process is transparent. Within an OLE applica-
 tion, the OLE Network Portal appears as another local OLE server ap-
 plication, which can be expanded to a window to display OLE-aware ap-
 plications/servers on the network. Information from sources across the
 network can be linked or embedded into desktop applications through
 ObjectBroker. The ObjectBroker OLE portal employs OLE Version 2.0 in-
 terfaces and also provides support for OLE Version 1.0 applications.

 ObjectBroker extends the Microsoft Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) com-
 munications protocol to allow Microsoft Windows applications on a net-
 worked PC to interact using DDE with applications running on SunOS,
 IBM AIX, HP-UX, ULTRIX, OpenVMS and DEC OSF/1. Applications can func-
 tion as DDE clients or servers. DDE support in ObjectBroker allows two
 Microsoft applications to communicate on different PCs.

 Transports

 ObjectBroker supports PATHWORKS TCP/IP, Novell[R] TCP/IP and PATHWORKS
 DECnet IV network transports. In addition, ObjectBroker uses the Winsocket
 Version 1.1.1 interface to PATHWORKS TCP/IP and Novell TCP/IP and may
 work with other Winsocket-compliant TCP/IP transports implementations.
 However, no others have been tested nor are they supported at this time.

 Multiple Simultaneous Transports





                                  7



 ObjectBroker V2.5 supports multiple network transports on a single sys-
 tem; each transport can run concurrently on the system. A client run-
 ning TCP/IP and DECnet can communicate with a server that is running
 either TCP/IP, DECnet, or both. The system administrator controls which
 transports are available to client and server applications on each sys-
 tem. The platforms that support multiple simultaneous transports are
 OpenVMS systems, Macintosh, Microsoft Windows, and Windows NT (Intel
 and AXP).

 Network Test Tool

 The network test tool provides the ability to determine whether the
 network is properly configured for use with ObjectBroker. A user can
 specify the target host to test against and the amount of data to be
 sent. This tool also provides detailed error messages when failures
 occur.

 Installations

 New installations on all platforms provide the installer with a sim-
 plified installation.

 Interoperability

 ObjectBroker V2.5 supports the use of the ACA Services Version 2.1,
 ACAS_ routines, and ObjectBroker Version 2.5 CORBA routines. Instal-
 lation of the Objectbroker Version 2.5 and ACA 2.1 compatibility bits
 must be on the same system.

 The CORBA routines are supported on all platforms. The ACA routines
 are supported on platforms released with ACA V2.1, but not on new plat-
 forms released with ObjectBroker V2.5 such as Windows NT.

 The installation procedure allows the installation of the ObjectBro-
 ker software and the ACA compatibility software. Installation of the
 compatibility software is optional. Applications which use the ACAS_
 routines can continue to communicate with applications using the ACA
 Services V2.1 release, but will not be able to communicate with ap-
 plications using the CORBA_routines.

                                  8



 New features in ObjectBroker V2.5 will not be available from the ACAS_
 routines. Applications which were written against the ORB_ routines
 provided in the ACA Services V2.1 release will need to be migrated to
 the CORBA routines provided in the ObjectBroker V2.5 release. This mi-
 gration will require code modifications, recompilation, and relink-
 ing.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors Supported - Alpha AXP Processors for Development and Run-
 time Only:

 Alpha AXP:  DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Workstation,
             DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Server,
             DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Workstation,
             DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Server

             DEC 4000 Model 610 AXP System

             DEC 7000 Model 610 AXP System

             DEC 10000 Model 610 AXP System

 Processors Supported - VAX-based Processors for Development and Run-
 time Only:

 VAX:       VAX 4000 Model 200,
            VAX 4000 Model 300,
            VAX 4000 Model 500,
            VAX 4000 Model 600

            VAX 6000 Model 200 Series,
            VAX 6000 Model 300 Series,
            VAX 6000 Model 400 Series,
            VAX 6000 Model 500 Series,
            VAX 6000 Model 600 Series




                                  9




            VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300,
            VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX 8530,
            VAX 8550, VAX 8600, VAX 8650,
            VAX 8700, VAX 8800, VAX 8810,
            VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

            VAX 9000 Model 110,
            VAX 9000 Model 210,
            VAX 9000 Model 300 Series,
            VAX 9000 Model 400 Series

            VAXft Model 110,
            VAXft Model 310,
            VAXft Model 410,
            VAXft Model 610,
            VAXft Model 612

            VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750,
            VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785

 MicroVAX:  MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000,
            MicroVAX 3100, MicroVAX 3300,
            MicroVAX 3400, MicroVAX 3500,
            MicroVAX 3600, MicroVAX 3800,
            MicroVAX 3900

 VAXstation: VAXstation II, VAXstation 2000,
            VAXstation 3100 Series, VAXstation 3200,
            VAXstation 3500, VAXstation 3520,
            VAXstation 3540

            VAXstation 4000 Model 60,
            VAXstation 4000 VLC






                                 10




 VAXserver: VAXserver 3100, VAXserver 3300,
            VAXserver 3400, VAXserver 3500,
            VAXserver 3600, VAXserver 3602,
            VAXserver 3800, VAXserver 3900

            VAXserver 4000 Model 200,
            VAXserver 4000 Model 300,
            VAXserver 4000 Model 500

            VAXserver 6000 Model 210,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 220,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 310,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 320,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 410,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 420,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 510,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 520,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 610,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 620,
            VAXserver 6000 Model 630

 Processors Not Supported

 MicroVAX I, VAXstation I, VAX-11/725, VAX-11/782, VAXstation 8000















                                 11



 Processor Restriction

 A TK50 tape drive is required for standalone MicroVAX 2000 and VAXs-
 tation 2000 systems.

 Disk Space Requirements

    OpenVMS AXP 8,400 blocks
    OpenVMS VAX 8,400 blocks

 This value refers to the disk space required on the user file system.
 This size is an approximate; actual size may vary depending on the user's
 system environment, configuration, and software options.

 CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

 This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
 and licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions. The HARD-
 WARE REQUIREMENTS section details any special hardware this product
 requires.

 * V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXclus-
 ter Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) and include CI, Eth-
 ernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Operating Systems:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Version 5.2 or later

 o  OpenVMS AXP Version 1.5 or later

 Transports For OpenVMS VAX:

 o  DECnet - VAX Version 5.4 or Version 5.5

 o  TCP/IP - Services for OpenVMS, Version 3.0


                                 12

 

 For OpenVMS AXP:

 o  TCP/IP - Services for OpenVMS, Version 3.0

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 o  DEC C for OpenVMS AXP Systems (for program development on OpenVMS
    AXP)

 o  VAX C (for program development on OpenVMS VAX)

 ObjectBroker development and run-time licenses for the following plat-
 forms can be used in conjunction with these products:

 o  ObjectBroker for ULTRIX Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for Windows NT Intel Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for Windows NT AXP Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for HP-UX Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for IBM AIX Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for OSF/1 AXP Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for SunOS Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for Macintosh Version 2.5

 o  ObjectBroker for Microsoft Windows Version 2.5

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.



                                 13

 

 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS VAX:

 o  TK50 Streaming Tape

 ObjectBroker for ObjectBroker OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP:

 o  CD-ROM

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 ObjectBroker for UNIX Software Licenses

 Orderable for Specific OpenVMS Operating Systems:

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS AXP Development:
    QL-06UA*-**

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS AXP Run-Time Only:
    QL-06VA*-**

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS VAX Development:
    QL-XKAA*-**

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS VAX Run-Time Only:
    QL-XKBA*-**













                                 14

 

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS Software Media and Documentation Kits

 Orderable for Specific OpenVMS Operating Systems:

 The ObjectBroker Development and Run-Time CD-ROMs include all supported
 platforms except ULTRIX:

 ObjectBroker Development CD-ROM
    QA-0PKAA-H8

 ObjectBroker Run-Time CD-ROM
    QA-0PKAB-H8

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS AXP Development and Run-Time:
    ObjectBroker CD-ROMs only

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS VAX Development:
    QA-XKAA9-H5

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS VAX Run-Time Only:
    QA-XKBA9-H5

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS Software Documentation

 Order the Same Documentation Kit for all ObjectBroker Products:
    QA-0PKAA-GZ

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS Software Product Services

 Orderable for Specific OpenVMS Operating Systems:

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS AXP Development:
    QT-06UA*-**

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS AXP Run-Time:
    QT-06VA*-**

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS VAX Development:
    QT-XKAA*-**

 ObjectBroker for OpenVMS VAX Run-Time Only:
    QT-XKBA*-**

                                 15

 

 * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
 censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
 about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
 ital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 The OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP support the OpenVMS License Manage-
 ment Facilities.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD. The above information is valid at time of re-
 lease. Please contact your local Digital office for the most up-to-
 date information.

 [R] HP-UX is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.

 [R] IBM and AIX are registered trademarks of International Business
    Machines Corporation.

 [R] Macintosh is a registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

 [R] Microsoft, MS, and MS-DOS are registered trademarks of Mi-
    crosoft Corporation.

                                 16

 


 [R] Motif and OSF/1 are registered trademarks of Open Software
    Foundation, Inc.

 [R] Novell is a registered trademark of Novell, Inc.

 [R] OMG is a registered trademark of Object Management Group.

 [R] UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other
    countries, licensed exclusively through X/Open Company, Ltd.

 [TM]CORBA is a trademark of Object Management Group

 [TM]Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.

 [TM]SunOS is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc.

 [TM]Windows and Windows NT are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, AXP, DEC, DECnet, Digital, ObjectBroker,
    OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, RX, TK, ULTRIX, and VAX are trademarks of
    Digital Equipment Corporation.

 ©1994 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.
















                                 17
