 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS 
          VAX V3.1                                             SPD 25.B1.05

          DESCRIPTION

          ALL-IN-1 Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS VAX V3.1
          provides robust and scaleable services to Microsoft[R] Windows[TM] and
          Apple[R] Macintosh[R] desktops - such as those utilizing TeamLinks 
          Clients - and timeshared VTs, with a number of flexible licensing and
	  migration options designed to maximise customer choice.

          It has a proven facility for integrating other business-oriented ap-
          plications and unifies applications and services into an easy-to-use
          information system. It provides facilities for mixed groups of
          VT and TeamLinks users in small departments or across the enterprise
          to communicate, share documents and work together to raise collec-
          tive productivity.

          Through ALL-IN-1 electronic mail and links into Digital Equipment's
          networking facilities and de facto industry standard networks such
          as TCP/IP, users can transport or receive multi-media information
          that has been created on desktop, departmental and corporate sys-
          tems. In addition, due to its server based origins and comprehen-
          sive system management facilities, a minimum management staff is re-
          quired.

          ALL-IN-1 Office Server consists of:

          o  ALL-IN-1 Office Application

          o  Integral Support for TeamLinks Windows and Macintosh Clients

          o  Multiple Licensing Options and Licensing Styles

                                       DIGITAL              September 1994

                                                               AE-GF34K-TE

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  Message Router Gateway for OpenVMS VAX (includes both the Mes-
             sage Router and the Gateway to OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility)

          o  VAX FMS (includes both FMS and Forms Language Translator)

          o  ALL-IN-1 Group Conferencing (based on DEC Notes)

          o  Integral CDA Conversion Service

          ALL-IN-1 provides an environment in which users access applications
          in a consistent manner. A user's documents are stored in the File
          Cabinet where they are accessed from the office applications.

          The generic office applications are built upon the base system fa-
          cilities. These facilities are available when customizing or devel-
          oping applications that are to be consistent with the ALL-IN-1 en-
          vironment

          LICENSING OPTIONS

          Sub-systems of ALL-IN-1 are now available packaged in a number of
          licensing options all from the same kit. These options are designed
          to enable customers to optimise their purchases to suit end-user 
	  needs.

          Licensing Options available with the ALL-IN-1 Office Server V3.1
          on OpenVMS AXP and VAX










                                          2

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
                          ALL-IN-1
                          Inte-                                  ALL-IN-1
                          grated                    ALL-IN-1     Client
          Licensing       Office       ALL-IN-1     Core         Services
          Option__________System_______STARTER______Services_____Access___

          Time Manage-    Yes          No           No           No
          ment

          WPS-PLUS        Yes          Yes          No           No
          editor

          Group Con-      Yes          No           Yes          Add'n
          ferencing                                              license
          (DEC Notes)                                            required

          Customisation   Yes          No           Yes          No
          Management

          System          Yes          Yes          Yes          Yes
          Management
          (from VT
          only)

          Directory       Yes          Yes          Yes          Yes
          Access

          Mail            Yes          Yes          Yes          Yes

          Shared File     Yes          Yes          Yes          Yes
          Cabinet

          VT or Ter-      Yes          Yes          Yes          No*
          minal Em-
          ulation
          support





                                          3

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
                          ALL-IN-1
                          Inte-                                  ALL-IN-1
                          grated                    ALL-IN-1     Client
          Licensing       Office       ALL-IN-1     Core         Services
          Option__________System_______STARTER______Services_____Access___


          TeamLinks       Yes          Yes          Yes          Yes
          Client
          Support_________________________________________________________

          * Support is provided for one system manager only. Additional sys-
          tem administration personnel can be granted access, each requiring
          a Personal User License from any of the other licensing options. Con-
          current Use Licenses for system management purposes are not recom-
          mended.

          Notes: The ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access License is limited to
          the current capabilities of the TeamLinks V2.* Client (Windows
          and Macintosh). Subsequent versions of the TeamLinks Client are
          planned providing greater access to ALL-IN-1 services.

          The ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access license does not support
          User access from VTs or terminal emulation mode UNDER ANY CIR-
          CUMSTANCES. For capabilities greater than those accessible from
          TeamLinks V2.1 Clients choose the full ALL-IN-1 IOS (Integrated
          Office Server) license, the ALL-IN-1 Core Services license or
          the ALL-IN-1 STARTER license as appropriate.

          Every TeamLinks client must be licensed by a TeamLinks V2.1 or
          V2.0 Client license regardless of the ALL-IN-1 licensing option
          being accessed.







                                          4

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          TeamLinks CLIENT SUPPORT

          Services available to TeamLinks V2.0 and V2.1 Clients

          The ALL-IN-1 Office Server provides ALL-IN-1 workgroup ser-
          vices to TeamLinks V2.0 and V2.1 Clients over DECnet, TCP/IP,
          Asynchronous links or Appletalk (to Macintosh devices). The
          server enables TeamLinks users to gain access to the file cab-
          inet drawers, folders and documents, messaging service, and
          distribution lists with minimum retraining for VT users familiar
          with ALL-IN-1.

          Users employing Windows and Macintosh desktops with their choice
          of personal productivity applications available for these plat-
          forms can transfer document types of any description to the
          ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet for secure storage and send these multi-
          media documents via the messaging service using existing distri-
          bution lists.

          ALL-IN-1 Office Server V3.1 allows users of heterogeneous
          clients (Windows, Macintosh, VT, DOS) to co-exist and fully
          participate in workgroup activities.

          It is recommended that TeamLinks for Microsoft Windows V2.0
          Clients be updated to TeamLinks V2.1 to gain access to more
          functionality and higher performance.

          Summary of Services available to TeamLinks V2.1 Clients:

          File Cabinet

          Document Level:

          o  Import/export from/to MS-DOS[R] or Macintosh

          o  Refile documents

          o  Explicitly convert documents

          o  Explicitly format documents

          o  Copy documents

          o  Delete documents

                                          5

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  Reserve/Unreserve documents

          o  Selectively index documents

          Folder Level:

          o  Refile documents within folders

          o  Copy documents between folders

          o  Delete folders

          o  Obtain details about folder contents

          o  Display an Index of Folders within a drawer or across drawers

          Drawer Level:

          o  Create drawer

          o  Delete drawer

          o  Obtain details about sharers, access rights, location

          o  Add drawers from those available

          o  Remove drawers

          o  Provide index of drawers in file cabinet

          o  Empty wastebasket

          Mail

          o  Create mail message

          o  Edit mail message

          o  Delete mail message

          o  Read mail message

          o  Answer mail message

          o  Send mail message

          o  Forward mail message

                                          6

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  File mail message

          o  Show message attributes

          o  Modify created message attributes

          o  File message text

          o  Attach mail message

          o  Detach mail message

          o  Display index of attachments

          o  Set read receipt request

          o  Generate X.400 encoded read receipts

          o  Provide user with the capability of controlling read receipt
             generation options

          o  Set delivery notification request

          o  Set delivery priority

          o  Set delivery sensitivity

          o  Set delivery importance

          o  Display index of Inbox

          o  Read new message

          o  Provide address validation

          o  Provide auto-reply service

          o  Provide auto-forward service

          o  Broadcast mail notification

          o  Receive notification of new mail

                                          7

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Directory Services

          o  ALL-IN-1 system distribution lists

          o  Personal distribution lists

          o  ALL-IN-1 Groups

          o  ALL-IN-1 nicknames

          o  ALL-IN-1 profile names

          o  DDS directory services for validation

          o  DDS directory service for searching by attributes

          o  Primary or secondary DDS service

          User Management of Directories

          o  Own distribution lists

          Access to Groups

          o  List groups

          o  List members

          Indexing

          o  Index selection criteria

          o  Multiple selection






                                          8

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Access to TeamRoute for ALL-IN-1 OpenVMS VAX V1.2

          Facilities available to the system manager via a VT interface
          include extensions to ALL-IN-1 System Management, which enables
          the system manager to start and stop both the integral ALL-IN-1
          File Cabinet Server (FCS) and the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Access
          server.

          The level of client service can be extended beyond what is
          offered via the TeamLinks V2.1 Client. A full complement of
          Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) is provided to the
          ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server and ALL-IN-1 Distributed Access
          server for Application Developers.

          OFFICE APPLICATIONS

          File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

          The ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet is similar in function to a standard
          office filing cabinet with drawers consisting of documents
          contained within folders. Folders are in alphabetical order
          and documents within the folders are in order by date and time
          of creation. The latest document is listed first, except for the
          INBOX where the latest document is listed last.

          Document information (such as title, date created, document
          number, author, keywords, and type) is maintained in the File
          Cabinet. Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and
          manage the contents of the File Cabinet. The user can print
          or delete more than one document at a time. Selection of the
          documents can be made with user-specified criteria.

          Documents (individual or by folder) can be refiled, cross-filed,
          or duplicated. Information such as title and associated keywords
          can be changed. When a document has multiple cross-filings
          within a single folder, only one copy of the document body is
          stored.

          Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket until
          the Wastebasket is emptied.

                                          9

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of documents
          or contents of the user's screen can be temporarily placed.
          Contents of the scratch pad can be inserted into a document,
          edited, printed, mailed, or read.

          The File Cabinet provides access to documents through a common
          mechanism regardless of the format of the documents. Support is
          provided as standard for document formats of any type including
          multi-media. In addition, all X.400 (1984) P2 attributes can
          be stored in the ALL-IN-1 V3.1 File Cabinet and sent between
          ALL-IN-1 Office Server and MAILbus400 Message Transfer Agent
          for OpenVMS VAX, OpenVMS Alpha AXP, OSF/1[R] Alpha AXP, and ULTRIX
          systems over DECnet OSI Phase V through the XMR (OpenVMS VAX)
          gateway.

          ALL-IN-1 provides a feature that allows the user and system
          manager to archive/restore any ALL-IN-1 document from the shared
          areas or from a user's File Cabinet. Archiving of the same
          document by multiple users will result in multiple copies of
          that document being archived.

          Mail Janitor

          The Mail Janitor Utility (MJU) ASSETS functionality is incor-
          porated in the base product. It allows the system manager to
          refile old messages in the READ and OUTBOX folders to the user's
          WASTEBASKET. The manager can set the maximum permitted age of
          messages in the READ and OUTBOX folders (default 60 days) and
          a maximum number of messages to delete per folder. Profile and
          Policies options can set and override default actions for number
          of messages and user length of absence.

          Checkmail

          The functionality of the Checkmail ASSETS package is incor-
          porated into the base product. This feature is used to check
          if the user has any unread or unsent mail in the default mail
          drawer before entering ALL-IN-1 and will inform the user if this
          is the case.

                                         10

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Shared Filing

          Users can create shared drawers to allow other users to read
          and edit shared documents. Access controls are provided so that
          the drawer owner can specify which users or named groups of
          users are allowed to access a drawer and the operations they
          are allowed to perform in it. Concurrency control ensures that
          certain actions are prohibited while a user is modifying a
          shared document. For example, while a user is editing a shared
          document, other users attempting to edit that document will be
          informed the document is in use and who is editing the document.

          The Reservation feature enables a VT or TeamLinks user to re-
          serve a document in the File Cabinet before uploading the doc-
          ument to the user's PC or Mac, thereby indicating to all other
          users who have access to that document that the document is in
          the process of being modified. Anyone subsequently attempting
          to modify the document is informed that it is reserved by an-
          other individual with a timestamp and that only Read Access is
          permitted. Only when the reserver returns the modified document
          and removes the Reservation, can others access the document with
          more than Read Access.

          Shared Filing links all users' File Cabinets on a system or
          across systems via the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option.
          Refer to the ALL-IN-1Distributed Sharing Option Software Product
          Description (SPD 36.79.xx).

          Group Services

          Users can define a set of users as a Group and use it as a
          distribution list. Multiple Groups can be defined. Groups can
          be assigned access privileges to shared documents or drawers.
          Members can be added or deleted from a group and associated
          access rights are automatically assigned or removed. Users can
          also check what Groups they belong to. TeamLinks V2.* users can
          currently just use List Groups and List Members only.


                                         11

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          MAIL

          The Electronic Messaging application provides a means of ex-
          changing messages with other users. The user can create, edit,
          print, delete, read, send answer and forward messages. The mes-
          sage header (which contains addressee(s), subject and mail clas-
          sification) and the text of the message can be edited.

          When creating a message, the user specifies the addressee(s)
          to whom the message is to be sent. Optionally, any addressee(s)
          to receive copies of the message and blind carbon copies of
          the message may be included. In addition users may specify an
          Expiry Date for each message sent along with Importance (high or
          otherwise) and Sensitivity (e.g. Company Confidential, Private,
          Personal). To save time with addressing, the user can create
          personal distribution lists or nicknames (seen only by the
          user).

          Incoming messages can be forwarded and/or answered. Answers can
          be directed to the sender only, or to all the recipients of the
          message.Confirmation that the addressee(s) has received and/or
          read the message can be requested. Priority for delivery of
          the message can be assigned as Express, First Class, or Second
          Class. The user can specify that the sending of a message be
          deferred to a time chosen by the user.

          Messages appear and are treated as documents to the user.
          ALL-IN-1 maintains folders for incoming, read, created, and
          sent messages. Once a message is sent, one copy of that message
          is shared (per system or cluster) by the sender and receiver(s)
          and cannot be edited. Messages can be refiled and cross-filed in
          the user's File Cabinet. Documents already in the File Cabinet
          can be sent to other users.

          The user can choose to have all incoming messages automatically
          forwarded to another user. Alternatively, the user can create a
          reply message that is sent in response to all incoming mail (for
          example, "I am out of the office until...").

                                         12

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Shared Filing within Electronic Messaging ensures that opera-
          tions behave correctly in shared and distributed environments.
          Mail Operations always take place in the user's MAIN drawer,
          whatever the previous context.

          An index of attachments to a message can be displayed and a
          set of options is provided for printing or reading individual
          attachments. Attachments can be filed as revisable text or as
          messages which can be answered or forwarded.

          The Set Mail User (SMU) Option allows a user to perform many
          mail operations on behalf of another user, such as a secretary
          for a manager.The Grant Mail Access (GMA) Option lets users
          specify other users who may process their mail. The mail header
          displays both users' names when a mail message is sent by a user
          employing SMU.

          Addressing includes user interface improvements; the ability
          to create a distribution list using the list of addresses from
          a received Message Header; nickname support - long nicknames,
          manipulation of the long mail addresses common on messages sent
          or received via gateways to other mail systems, and the ability
          to create a nickname from the sender of a message.

          Exchange of messages with ALL-IN-1 users on other systems in a
          DECnet network is provided by Message Router for OpenVMS VAX.
          Message Router OpenVMSmail Gateway allows ALL-IN-1 users to ex-
          change messages with users of the OpenVMS Personal Mail Utility.
          Refer to the VAX Message Router for OpenVMS VAX Software Product
          Description (SPD 26.33.xx).

          In addition, all X.400 (1984) P2 attributes can be stored in
          the ALL-IN-1 V3.1 File Cabinet and sent between ALL-IN-1 Office
          Server and MAILbus400 Message Transfer Agent for OpenVMS VAX,
          OpenVMS Alpha AXP, OSF/1[R] Alpha AXP and ULTRIX systems over
          DECnet OSI Phase V via the XMR gateway (OpenVMS VAX).



                                         13

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          DIRECTORIES

          The Directories subsystem provides access and maintenance to
          directories available to the user. The user can view a direc-
          tory, maintained by the system manager, that contains telephone
          numbers and addresses. A directory of all the ALL-IN-1 users can
          also be viewed. Facilities are provided for the user to main-
          tain and view a personal telephone directory, nicknames, and
          distribution lists.

          With the installation of MAILbus Directory Service, ALL-IN-1
          provides the user with the ability to perform mail directory
          searches on defined criteria such as name, department, location,
          and organization.

          CUSTOMISATION AND APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT

          For VT users ALL-IN-1 supports a form-driven system that uses
          VAX FMS (Forms Management System) or DEC FMS on the Alpha AXP
          architecture. For more information on VAX FMS refer to SPD
          26.10.xx and DEC FMS SPD 45.06.xx [Note: FMS is not relevant
          to TeamLinks V2.* users.]

          In conjunction with FMS and FMS Form Language Translator, the
          ALL-IN-1 Application Development utilities allow changes to be
          made to the ALL-IN-1 system. ALL-IN-1 can be altered to fit
          customer-specific requirements and provides a platform for
          application development and integration. ALL-IN-1 provides a
          programming interface to common functions and mechanisms to pass
          control from one application or function to another (i.e., Flow
          Control).








                                         14

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          CUSTOMISATION MANAGEMENT (CM)

          Note: Not accessible from TeamLinks V2.0 and V2.1 Clients or the
          ALL-IN-1 STARTER and Client Services Access licensing options.

          The features within Customization Management allow system man-
          agers and application programmers to modify their standard
          ALL-IN-1 system in a controlled and disciplined manner. It
          provides the ability to create, modify, index, and control cus-
          tomizations as well as providing a modification history record
          for each customization.

          Customization Management provides support for customizable
          element types that ship with ALL-IN-1, as well as support for
          customer's own element types.

          Support for customized corporate systems is provided through the
          use of application areas. In addition, transferring customiza-
          tions and applications from one system to another is supported.

          Context-sensitive menu options are available, which allow the
          display and choice of only those menu options relevant to a
          particular element type.

          SYSTEM MANAGEMENT (SM)

          Note: Not accessible from TeamLinks V2.0 and V2.1 Clients.

          The System Management utilities are used to perform routine
          maintenance of ALL-IN-1, such as scheduling and rescheduling
          of housekeeping procedures, management of printers, direct
          maintenance of network and DDS profiles, metering, and quota
          management of the shared area. A system manager has the option
          of creating a non-OpenVMS privileged system administrator for
          the purpose of administering the management of the following:

          o  File Cabinet and Distributed Access Servers in support of
             TeamLinks Clients and other ALL-IN-1 components

          o  user accounts (create, delete, move, rename)

                                         15

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  mail system Sender/Fetcher processes and queue maintenance

          o  document archiving

          o  system distribution lists

          o  drawers, including individual user drawer creation restric-
             tion

          o  Mail Janitor

          o  distribution list print suppression

          o  scheduling of housekeeping tasks

          o  monitoring of ALL-IN-1 exception and information reports

          o  and the initiation of ALL-IN-1 shutdown.

          ALL-IN-1 supplies a metering facility that enables system man-
          agers to collect data on resource usage within ALL-IN-1 sessions
          for pre-defined events. Application developers can define and
          create their own additional meters. Meters will record the num-
          ber of times a meter is called, CPU usage, Direct I/O, Buffered
          I/O, and Page Faults. Metered events can also be collected by
          DECtrace, if it is installed on the system. This provides facil-
          ities for managing and reporting the information collected.

          Note: Utility Accounts will be removed in the next release of
          ALL-IN-1.

          PRINTING

          The Printing facility provides the user the ability to specify
          where a document is to be printed, the number of copies, and
          the output format. The output can be directed to any of the
          printers available to the ALL-IN-1 user, another document, or to
          the user's terminal. Documents that specify Runoff handling are
          automatically processed by Digital Standard Runoff (DSR) before
          output. Printing and formatting is handled in the background,
          freeing the terminal for other actions when interaction with the
          print formatter is not needed.

                                         16

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports
          the document's final form format.

          Print and LPS print options (LPS20 and LPS40) can be specified
          during a print operation. System-defined and user-defined print
          styles can be utilized for improved ease-of-use. Throughput of
          jobs during a multiple print operation has been improved.

          Distribution List Print Suppression

          Suppression of the distribution list on reading and/or printing
          of a mail message is determined according to the user's current
          preferred settings.

          JOB SERVICES

          Note: Not available from TeamLinks V2.0 and V2.1 Clients.

          ALL-IN-1 provides users the ability to perform operations on
          their jobs in print, batch, and server queues. Using the mul-
          tiple select indexing capability, users can get information on
          jobs, delete jobs, edit their attributes, and restart currently
          executing jobs.

          Management of queues and jobs can be performed within ALL-IN-1.
          Managers can assign one or more users to manage specific local
          queues and requeue jobs to different queues.

          PROFILE

          Each ALL-IN-1 user has a user profile that contains information
          pertaining to the user.

          The VT user can access and modify part of their user profile
          including full name, address, telephone number, department, and
          title. In addition, user preference information (such as work
          week and working hours, editing style, mail notification, and
          read receipt handling) can be modified.

                                         17

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          The System Manager maintains information such as user privi-
          leges, default directory, and form library access.

          Index Select

          In most instances, a user can create an index selection list
          by selecting or deselecting objects from the index. Operations
          (such as print, delete, cross-file, and so forth) can be per-
          formed on the list as if they were a single entity. An index
          menu lists the options available to the current selected in-
          dex. Within an index, a VT or terminal emulation user can scroll
          either forward or backward.

          INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT

          ALL-IN-1 is designed to support multilingual operations. This
          support is subject to availability of the specific translation.
          ALL-IN-1 can be deployed in a multilingual network and can
          support multilingual operations on a single system. However,
          all language kits, including U.S. English, must be the same
          version.


          DOCUMENT PROCESSING

          Note: The license to use the WPS-PLUS editor is not included
          in the ALL-IN-1 Core Services License or the ALL-IN-1 Client
          Services Access License, however existing WPS-PLUS documents can
          be read, formatted and printed; only the capability to create
          new WPS-PLUS documents is unavailable.

          The Document Processing application enables VT and terminal emu-
          lation users to create, edit, print, delete, and read documents.
          The editor used is dependent upon the user's preference indi-
          cated in the User Profile. ALL-IN-1 users have a choice of edi-
          tors: EDT, TPU, WPS, and WPS-PLUS. TeamLinks users may utilise
          any wordprocessor supported by their particular client such as
          WordPerfect, Ami Pro or Word and be able to store documents so
          produced in the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet.

                                         18

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          WPS-PLUS is not supported on Windows or Macintosh clients,
          however a WPS-PLUS viewer is provided as standard.

          EDT, TPU, and WPS are ASCII editors. EDT and TPU use keying
          conventions and terminology oriented toward the more technical
          user. WPS uses keying conventions and terminology that make it a
          subset of WPS- PLUS. WPS is available to users who have a word
          processing orientation but desire ASCII output.

          The optionally installable WPS-PLUS V4.2 for ALL-IN-1 is Digital
          Equipment's full function word processor. This version signifi-
          cantly expands the capabilities of WPS-PLUS by providing true
          proportional spacing, font selection, support for PostScript[R]
          output, multicolumn editor (up to 25 Left/Right margins within
          a ruler), the ability to create and/or edit up to 10 documents
          at one time. User enhancements include a more versatile status
          line, "Start" and "End" Control Blocks inserted together with a
          single keystroke, and many more.

          Highlights of WPS-PLUS are:

          o  Previewer for VT users and available as an application to
             TeamLinks users

          o  LNE1 character set support

          o  Formatter From/To page type field (All, Physical, Single)

          o  Global search and replace offering prompt at first occurrence
             and case and rendition sensitivity

          o  Single line view mode

          o  Multicolumn mode "goto column" commands

          o  Spell checker with "Corrections" option

          o  Insert or Overstrike Mode

          o  User control of margins and tabs, including left-justified,
             right-justified, and decimal-aligned tabs

          o  Automatic Centering, Underlining, Bolding, Double Underscor-
             ing, Change Bars, and Redlining

                                         19

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  Technical Characters and Scientific Equations editing

          o  Support for Wide Documents, up to 256 characters

          o  Numbered Footnotes, Paragraph Numbering to nine levels,
             Automatic Table of Contents generation, Table of Authorities,
             and Word Indexing

          o  Widow/Orphan control and No-break Blocks

          o  Column Cut and Paste

          o  List Processing and Sort to produce form letters and maintain
             mailing lists-background processing is supported

          o  Abbreviation and Library documents

          o  Two-dimensional Editor for creation of diagrams and equations

          TIME MANAGEMENT (TM)

          Note: Not licensed by the ALL-IN-1 STARTER, ALL-IN-1 Core Ser-
          vices or the ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access License.

          An ALL-IN-1 VT User interface to Time Management, offers the
          facility to maintain a personal calendar of events. An "Events
          at a Glance" screen gives the user an editable picture of the
          day's events, which makes it easy to make changes. Likewise, the
          "Task at a Glance" screen gives the user an editable picture of
          open tasks. These pictures are combined on an "Events and Tasks"
          screen where other Time Managament operations can be performed.

          Users can tailor Time Management and display only the screens
          and options that are of interest to them.

          Users can schedule, reschedule, or cancel an event. In an event
          involving other attendees, Time Management uses the Electronic
          Messaging application to deliver meeting notifications and con-
          firmations. Users can also reserve unavailable time on their
          calendars. An entry in the user's calendar can be marked con-
          fidential and other users cannot read the description of the
          entry. Recurring events can be scheduled whereby an attendee's

                                         20

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          "Yes" reply schedules all occurrences of the meeting on the
          calendar.

          Time Management has the ability to perform a multinode scan.
          This scan will return a graph of potential attendees' free time
          prior to the scheduling of the meeting. It will scan both local
          and off-node calendars in real time.

          The Tasks facility is provided to track reminders, to-do lists,
          action items, and so forth. Tasks are not necessarily tied to a
          specific day or time of day. Tasks can be viewed by selection
          criteria such as open versus closed, a range of beginning dates,
          deadlines, and so forth.

          Note: The ALL-IN-1 Time Management user interface, meeting no-
          tification and confirmations are not supported by TeamLinks
          Windows or Macintosh clients, however they are supported in
          terminal emulation mode.

          GROUP CONFERENCING

          Note: Not licensed by the ALL-IN-1 STARTER or ALL-IN-1 Client
          Services Access license.

          An ALL-IN-1 VT user interface has been applied to Digital 
	  Equipment's DEC Notes application to provide the Group Conferencing
          feature. This feature gives users the ability to communicate
          on a many-to-many basis while taking advantage of ALL-IN-1's
          ease of use. Application developers can benefit from DEC Notes
          being integrated at the API level in developing business or
          professional-specific applications that can use this conferenc-
          ing capability. For more information on DEC Notes refer to
          SPD 47.19.xx (OpenVMS Alpha AXP) and 27.06.xx (OpenVMS VAX).

          DEC Notes also supports a Windows interface through the Team-
          Links Conferencing for Windows V1.2 (SPD 38.65.xx) and may be
          integrated into TeamLinks Clients via the 'button bar'.


                                         21

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          DOCUMENT CONVERSION

          All licensing options include the following supported data
          types:

          o  DDIF - the standard CDA encoding format

          o  DOTS - the format for packing and transferring composite CDA
             documents

          o  DTIF - the CDA encoding format for tables

          o  WK1, WK3, DIF, MACWrite, DX, WPL, PICT, WORD, WORDPERFECT and
             RTF

          o  PS - the final form PostScript document format

          ALL-IN-1 allows all the datatypes to be read, with the exception
          of PostScript.

          Users will be able to send and receive these document types in
          mail, store them in their Filing Cabinet, read, print, copy, and
          convert them. The quality of formatting of the displayed data
          depends on the CDA facilities provided by the underlying OpenVMS
          system. ALL-IN-1 uses the CDA character cell formatter, which
          gives improved results with correct formatting and the inclusion
          of externally referenced files.

          ALL-IN-1 will attempt to print CDA documents in PostScript if
          the destination printer is capable of it; otherwise, ALL-IN-1
          will convert the document to ASCII text before printing.

          The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to/from the
          above datatypes.

          If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a standard
          editor, the normal handling will result in a message telling the
          user that the document format is not supported by the editor.
          However, the user can convert a CDA document into a suitable
          format for editing and then use the appropriate editor. Through
          conversion, there is a potential for formatting attributes to be
          lost.

                                         22

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          CDA Base Services supports the ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet, thus
          allowing documents live-linked by any CDA application. Users
          will also be able to unpack composite documents into the File
          Cabinet.

          Application programmers will have access to the CDA tools
          through the provision of API functions.

          For more information on CDA Runtime Services for OpenVMS refer
          to SPD 37.26.xx.

          In addition integration 'hooks' are included in all licensing
          options for Keyword KEYpak[R] converters on OpenVMS AXP and VAX.

          COMMUNICATIONS

          The Communications application enables users to access other
          computer systems without needing to understand anything about
          communications technology.

          Entire communications sessions can be automated through the use
          of Control Documents. (Control Documents are standard ALL-IN-1
          documents that contain a set of special commands.) Connection to
          other computer systems can be fully automated if autodial modems
          or hardwired connections are permitted. The asynchronous, non-
          DECnet connection is by means of an OpenVMS terminal port (RS232
          type) and can be connected to any computer system supporting
          such terminal types.

          Facilities are also provided to transfer files to and from a PC,
          OpenVMS and in or out of the user's File Cabinet.

          Modems may now be connected to LAT Servers enabling access from
          multiple systems on the network.





                                         23

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Desk Calculator

          Note: TeamLinks Clients have access to standard Windows and
          Macintosh accessories instead of these functions.

          The Desk Calculator enables the user to perform interactive cal-
          culations and include the results in documents. Desk Calculator
          operates in two modes: Calculator and Formula. Formula mode is
          used for complicated formulas that combine trigonometric and
          arithmetic functions. Calculator Mode is used for simple arith-
          metic computations. The alternate keypad is operated the same
          way as a standard calculator.

          Systemwide Features (Valid for VT Users)

          Menu Navigation for VT and Terminal Emulation Users

          Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus. Experi-
          enced users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

          The user can interrupt their current activity to read a new mail
          message, display the current time, or to access Time Management,
          Directories, Desk Calculator, and Scratch Pad.

          Users familiar with OpenVMS commands can have direct access to
          the commands without leaving ALL-IN-1 if they are authorised by
          the system manager to do so.

          Two styles of user interface are provided. One interface uses
          menus similar to other ALL-IN-1 applications. The other inter-
          face (hard-copy mode) is utilized, for efficiency, mainly over
          dial-up lines. This mode does not display the full screen menu
          but displays the menu in a strip form.






                                         24

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Help

          VT users can invoke Help for any part of ALL-IN-1 by pressing
          the Help key. The Help facility provides basic information on
          the function in question without the user having to reference
          the documentation.

          For TeamLinks users the standard F1 key provides Help in the
          Windows environment and 'Balloon' Help in the Macintosh environ-
          ment.

          On-line Training

          Note: Relevant to VT users only.

          VT users can learn how to use the system using the on-line
          training facilities. Training leads the user through sets of
          interactive screens and explains how the various features of
          ALL-IN-1 work.

          User-Defined Processes (Valid for VT users only)

          User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated key
          sequences by automatically recording keystrokes. There is no
          limit to the number of UDPs or the number of keystrokes that can
          be stored in a UDP. One UDP can invoke another UDP.

          Document Handling

          Document Reservation allows each user to protect a document
          whilst it is undergoing a series of edits, in situ or remotely,
          preventing other users from modifying it until unreserved.
          Whilst reserved other users can Read the document but not edit.

          The Document handling model makes a clear distinction between
          revisable and final form documents. The model provides clear
          separation of formatting and printing, so that formatting of
          documents can be performed separately from printing.

                                         25

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          The background formatter provides CDA formatting, which en-
          ables CDA formatting to be performed in both foreground and
          background.

          Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports
          the document's final form. If the destination does not support
          the final form, then, where possible, the document is converted
          to a format that is supported, or the user will be advised to
          print to a different printer.

          IBM[R] 3270 Terminal Support

          ALL-IN-1 can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards on CUT
          mode terminals that are supported using the CMX04 option card in
          a DECserver 550:

          o  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

          o  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

          o  102 Key Typewriter

          o  87 Key Typewriter

          DOCUMENTATION

          The following documentation is standard with ALL-IN-1:

          o  Read Me First

          o  System Management Documentation

             -  Release Notes (on-line)

             -  ALL-IN-1 Installation: Guide, includes the Guide to the
                Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool (CART)

             -  Installation: Language and Market Supplement

             -  Differences from ALL-IN-1 V3.0

             -  Management Guide

             -  Mail Management Guide

                                         26

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



             -  CDA Converter Library Documentation #

             -  Message Router Documentation

             -  OpenVMSmail Gateway Documentation

             -  VAX FMS and DEC FMS Installation Guide

             -  DEC Notes Installation Guide

          o  Application Development Reference Guides

             -  Application Programming: Getting Started

             -  Application Programming: Guide

             -  Application Programming: Using Customisation Management

             -  Application Programming: Reference Volumes 1, 2

             -  Application Programming: FMS Reference

             -  Application Programming: User Interface Standards

             -  Application Programming: Mini Reference

             -  Application Programming: Index

          o  General User Documentation

             -  ALL-IN-1 Minihåndbok

             -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Minihåndbok

          o  Super User Documentation

             -  ALL-IN-1 Brukerhåndbok

             -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Brukerhåndbok

             -  ALL-IN-1 Administration Guide

             -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Printer Characteristics

             -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Tilleggshåndbok

             -  Tastaturoversikter

                                         27

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          # The full documentation for the complete library is supplied
          although only a subset is included with ALL-IN-1 V3.1.

          Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased separately.

          SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

          In order to facilitate customisation of ALL-IN-1, several source
          code modules are provided on all available distribution media
          for this product. This source code is provided without any
          warranty of any kind, either express or implied.

          INSTALLATION

          In addition to the normal procedures for upgrading from the
          previous version, for customers where minimising downtime is
          critical, a Minimal Shutdown Upgrade from ALL-IN-1 V3.0 is also
          available allowing ALL-IN-1 to remain running for the bulk of
          the upgrade, reducing down time. This is also valid for ALL-IN-1
          STARTER V3.0 customers when upgrading to ALL-IN-1 V3.1.

          At installation the full ALL-IN-1 kit is installed regardless
          of licensing option required with the exception of the WPS-
          PLUS V4.2 editor, which is not installed with the ALL-IN-1 Core
          Services or ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access license.

          Only customers with experience in managing OpenVMS and ALL-IN-1
          should attempt installation of this product. Digital Equipment
          recommends that all other customers purchase Digital's Instal-
          lation Services. These services provide for installation of the
          software product by an experienced Digital Software Specialist.








                                         28

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          The CART (Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool)

          This tool is included as part of the installation procedures,
          but should be run prior to the upgrade to ALL-IN- 1 V3.1. It
          examines the customisations on the existing system and produces
          the CART Report indicating what changes are required to migrate
          applications and customisations. It contains a number of proce-
          dures which check for changed messages, mandatory changes, and a
          checklist generated from the Differences document.

          Upgrading from previous versions and co-existent versions

          Customers may only upgrade from ALL-IN-1 V3.0, V3.0A or ALL-IN-1
          STARTER V3.0 systems to V3.1, upgrading from earlier versions
          than V3.0 is not supported.

          ALL-IN-1 V3.1 does not support co-existent systems i.e. earlier
          versions of ALL-IN-1 and ALL-IN-1 V3.1 may not co-reside on the
          same CPU or VAXcluster.

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          Processors Supported

          Alpha AXP:

          o  DEC 2000 Model 300 Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  Digital 2100 A500/600MP Series Alpha AXP Server

          o  DEC 3000 Model 300 Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 300L Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 300X Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 300LX Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 400 Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 400 Alpha AXP Server

          o  DEC 3000 Model 500 Alpha AXP Workstation

                                         29

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  DEC 3000 Model 500X Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 600 Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 600 Alpha AXP Server

          o  DEC 3000 Model 800 Alpha AXP Workstation

          o  DEC 3000 Model 800 Alpha AXP Server

          o  DEC 4000 Model 600 Series Alpha AXP System

          o  DEC 7000 Model 600 Series Alpha AXP System

          o  DEC 10000 Model 600 Series Alpha AXP System

          Note: Recommended minimum memory size is 64MB

          VAX:

          o  VAXft Model 110,

          o  VAXft Model 310,

          o  VAXft Model 410,

          o  VAXft Model 610,

          o  VAXft Model 612

          o  VAX 4000 Model 100 Series to Model 700A Series

          o  VAX 6000 Model 200 Series to 600 Series

          o  VAX 7000 Model 600 Series

          o  VAX 8200 Model Series to VAX 8800 Model Series

          o  VAX 9000 Model 110 to VAX 9000 Model 400 Series

          o  VAX 10000 Model 600 Series

          o  VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785

                                         30

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          MicroVAX:

          o  MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000,

          o  MicroVAX 3100 Model 10 to MicroVAX 3100 Model 95

          o  MicroVAX 3300 Model to MicroVAX 3900 Model

          o  VAXstation: VAXstation II, VAXstation 2000,

          o  VAXstation 3100 Model 30 to VAXstation 3100 Model 76

          o  VAXstation 3200 Model to VAXstation 3540 Model

          o  VAXstation 4000 Model 60,

          o  VAXstation 4000 Model 90,

          o  VAXstation 4000 VLC

          Note: Recommended minimum memory size is 32MB

          Processors Not Supported

          o  MicroVAX: MicroVAX I

          o  VAXstation: VAXstation I, VAXstation 8000

          o  VAX: VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750, VAX-11/782

          No VAXservers of any type or model are supported as they do not
          support interactive operations essential for system management.

          Processor Restrictions

          ALL-IN-1 does not support diskless satellite systems in Ethernet
          and mixed interconnect clusters.

          The amount of memory, processors, and disk drives required by
          the supported CPUs to run ALL-IN-1 is dependent on the number
          of simultaneous users. This information is being updated on a
          continuing basis. Contact your local Digital Equipment office
          for specific details.

                                         31

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Other Hardware Supported

          TeamLinks Clients

          A Windows based personal computer using an 80386 microprocessor
          or better, IBM[R] or 100% compatible. A processor clock of at
          least 20 Mhz is recommended.

          o  A minimum of 5.0 MB system memory must be allocated for
             TeamLinks V2.0. Note: This is in addition to the memory used
             by the system software and any other applications that may be
             running.

          o  One 3.5-inch high-density (1.44 MB) disk drive

          o  Minimum 100 MB hard disk recommended

                OR

          o  Any Macintosh PC that supports Macintosh Operating System
             V7.0 or higher

          o  Minimum 100MB hard disk recommended

          o  A minimum of 1.5 MB system memory must be allocated for
             TeamLinks V2.0. Note: This is in addition to the memory used
             by the system software and any other applications that may be
             running.

          The following terminals are supported for text:

          o  VT100 series (VT100, VT100W, VT101, VT102, VT125) or devices
             in VT100 emulation mode (DECmate, Rainbow, Professional)

             Note: Some of the later ALL-IN-1 functionality is not acces-
             sible from VT100 or VT100W terminals. Refer to the relevant
             VT manual for information as to the capabilities of this
             device.

          o  VT200 series (VT220, VT240, VT241) and devices that support
             VT200 emulation

          o  VT300 series (VT320, VT330, VT340) and devices that support
             VT300 emulation

                                         32

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  VT420 text video terminal

          o  VT1000 in VT300 emulation mode or via DECwindows DECterm mode

          o  All Digital PCs in VT220 or VT300 emulation mode

          o  VAXstation-series terminals

          o  The following IBM[R] terminal keyboards on CUT mode terminals
             are supported using the CMX04 option card:

             -  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

             -  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

             -  102 Key Typewriter

             -  87 Key Typewriter

          Note: WPS-PLUS supports only those terminals with Advanced Video
          Option (AVO). It does not support the VT100 without AVO, VT131,
          DECmate I, or WS78.

          Technical Character Set Support

          o  VT220-, VT300-series terminals

          o  VAXstation II-supported in VT220 emulator mode

          o  DECmate II or DECmate III, with DECmate/WPS (minimum V2.1)
             software (in CX mode)

          o  All Digital PCs in VT220 or VT300 emulation mode

          Printers

          ALL-IN-1 can submit print jobs to virtually any device that has
          an associated OpenVMS printer queue.

          Application support for various printer features varies by the
          application used. The following lists printers supported by the
          WPS-PLUS subsystem integrated into ALL-IN-1 Office Server V3.1:

                                         33

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Note: * denotes that ALL-IN-1 V3.1 will be the last version
          to support this printer. # denotes that this printer has been
          superseded but no testing has been performed to ensure that all
          features of the replacement models are supported)

          Personal

          o  LA50*, LA70, LA75*, LA75 Plus

          o  LA324* (with Optional Sheet Feeder)

          o  LQP03* (with Optional Sheet Feeder)

          o  DEClaser 1100, DEClaser 1150*, DEClaser 1152

          o  LA310, LA424

          PC Printers (Via Terminal Emulation)

          o  Epson LQ-105#, HP[R] DeskJet[R] 500#,

          o  IBM ProPrinter[R] X24E#, NEC PinWriter[R] 6300#,

          o  Okidata Microline 393+#, Panasonic KX-P1180#,

          o  Toshiba[R] ExpressWriter 400#

          Shared:

          o  LA100*, LA210*, LN03* (with Optional Sheet Feeder)

          o  LN03 PLUS* (with Optional Sheet Feeder)

          o  LN03R* (ScriptPrinter)

          o  DEClaser 2100/plus, DEClaser 2150/plus,

          o  DEClaser 2200*, DEClaser 2250*

          o  LQP02* and LQP45* (with Opt. Sheet Feeder)

          o  QUME Wide Track Printer*, LJ250*

                                         34

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  HP LaserJet[R] Series II* and Series III*

          Departmental

          o  LP11, DEClaser 3200/plus, DEClaser 3250/plus,

          o  PrintServer 40* (LPS40), PrintServer 20* (LPS20)

          o  Turbo PrintServer 20, PrintServer 17, PrintServer 32

          DISK SPACE REQUIREMENTS (Block Cluster Size = 1)

          Disk Space Required on the System Disk or Alternate Working
          Device.

          Table 1 gives the disk space requirement for installing all the
          components of the ALL-IN-1 Version 3.1 kit on the system disk
          or alternate working device (AWD) during the installation. The
          values for safety and non-safety mode apply to both full and
          upgrade installations of ALL-IN-1 Version 3.1.

          















                                         35

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


	  Disk Space Required on the System Disk or AWD During
          Installation (Blocks)
          ________________________________________________________________
                                      VAX
          Installation      VAX       (Non-     AXP
          type______________(Safety)__safety)___(Safety)__AXP_(Non-safety)

          Norsk as          165 000    40 000   230 000   70 000
          the primary                   
          language

          Addition of       55 000    30 000    125 000   70 000
          architecture                         
          support for
          Norsk as
          the primary
          language

          Norsk as an       77 000    30 000    83 000    40 000
          additional
          language

          Addition of       12 000    10 000    20 000    24 000
          architecture
          support for
          Norsk as an
          additional
          language________________________________________________________


          Disk Space Values for ALL-IN-1 Areas

          Note: If you do not install WPS-PLUS with ALL-IN-1 Version 3.1,
          you can:

           o Decrease the disk space requirement on the language disk by
             2000 blocks.

           o Decrease the disk space in the shared library area by 3000
             blocks.

          If you choose to integrate WPS-PLUS without the associated
          PostScript files, you can decrease the disk space in the shared
          library area by 2000 blocks.

                                         36

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          If WPS-PLUS is installed with ALL-IN-1 Version 3.1 on an AXP
          system, the final language area requirement is 12 000 blocks
          less than the number quoted (12 000 blocks are used temporarily
          during installation).


          Disk space values for a full installation

          Full Installation: Disk Space for ALL-IN-1 Areas

          ________________________________________________________________
          ALL-IN-1
          Area_for..._____VAX_________AXP_________________________________

          System disk     20 000      55 000
          files

          Shared          52 000      77 000
          library
          files

          Shared data     12 500      12 500
          files

          Shared areas    1000        1000

          ALL-IN-1        1000        1000
          Manager
          account




                                         37

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
          ALL-IN-1
          Area_for..._____VAX_________AXP_________________________________

          ________________________________________________________________
          Language_Files__________________________________________________

          Language        50 000      55 000
          disk

          LCI$lexicon     1500        1500
          disk[1]

          System disk     5000        5000
          (language
          files)
          ________________________________________________________________
          [1]Only required if you install WPS-PLUS with ALL-IN-1 
          Version 3.1.____________________________________________________

          Upgrade Installation: Disk Space for ALL-IN-1 Areas

          Table 3 gives the disk space requirements for upgrading ALL-IN-1
          areas on the system and target disks. This applies to upgrades
          from ALL-IN-1 Version 3.0 and ALL-IN-1 STARTER Version 3.0.

          Note: The disk space requirements given are those used during
          the installation. The permanent space used when the installation
          has completed may be slightly less.

          The values given in the table assume that you choose to purge
          files during the installation. If you choose not to purge re-
          placed files, you must use the values for a full installation.











                                         38

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Disk Space for Upgrade Installations

          ________________________________________________________________
          ALL-IN-1
          Area_for..._____VAX_________AXP_________________________________

          System          10 000      45 000
          files[1]

          Shared          10 000      77 000
          library
          files

          Shared data     2000        2000
          files

          ________________________________________________________________
          Language_Files__________________________________________________

          Language        10 000      17 000
          disk

          LCI$lexicon     1500        1500
          disk[1]

          System disk     5000        5000
          (language
          files)
          ________________________________________________________________
          [1]Only required if you install WPS-PLUS with ALL-IN-1 
          Version 3.1.____________________________________________________

          Addition of Architecture Support: Disk Space

          Below are the disk space requirements for installing architec-
          ture support on the system and ALL-IN-1 target disks.



                                         39

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Disk_Space_for_Installation_of_Additional_Architecture_Support__

          ALL-IN-1
          Area_for..._____VAX_________AXP_________________________________

          System files    15 000      45 000

          Shared          35 000      65 000
          library
          files

          ________________________________________________________________
          Language_Files__________________________________________________

          Language        5000        10 000
          files

          System files    5000        5000
          (language
          files)__________________________________________________________

          Note: All sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending
          on the user's system environment, configuration, and software
          options selected.

          Optional Hardware

          ALL-IN-1 supports any mass storage, unit record, terminal, or
          printer device supported by the prerequisite software.

          The autodial feature of the Communications application supports
          the following modems:

          o  Digital Equipment DF02-AC

          o  Digital Equipment DF03-AC

          o  Digital Equipment DF100 series modems

          o     Case 440/12

          o  Racal-Milgo MPS1222-AD

          o  Racal-Milgo MPS1222 with Racal-Vadic VA811

                                         40

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Note: The availability of these product options may vary by
          country. Customers should contact their local Digital office for
          information on availability.

          CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

          This layered product is fully supported when installed on any
          valid and licensed VAXcluster or VMScluster configuration within
          the limits of the appropriate SPD (see immediately below). This
          includes VAX only, AXP only and mixed AXP and VAX clusters.

          Note: VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the
          VAXcluster Software for OpenVMS V6.1 (SPD 29.78.xx). The VM-
          Scluster Software V1.5 for OpenVMS AXP (SPD 42.18.xx) describes
          VMScluster configurations for OpenVMS AXP systems and mixed
          architecture clusters.

          WARNING: Whether a cluster consists of just VAX or just AXP
          systems or a mixture of VAX and AXP systems, *all* nodes running
          ALL-IN-1 within the cluster *must* refer to a single and common
          set of "OA$" logical definitions.

          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS
          ________________________________________________________________
          OpenVMS_VAX_______OpenVMS_Alpha_AXP_____________________________

          OpenVMS for       OpenVMS for AXP V6.1
          VAX V5.5-2

          DECnet-VAX        DECnet V1.5 for OpenVMS AXP
          end-node V5.5






                                         41

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
          ________________________________________________________________

          included_with_the_ALL-IN-1_kit__________________________________

          VAX_FMS_V2.4______DEC_FMS_V2.4_for_OpenVMS_AXP__________________

          OpenVMS Tailoring

          For OpenVMS VAX V5.5-2 systems and above and OpenVMS Alpha AXP
          V6.1 and above, the following classes of OpenVMS are required
          for full functionality of this layered product:

          o  Network Support

          o  Programming Support

          o  System Programming Support

          o  Secure User's Environment

          o  Utilities

          o  BLISS Require Files

          For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to
          the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description
          (SPD 25.01.xx) and OpenVMS Alpha AXP SPD (41.87.xx).

          Country-specific Software

          Please contact your Digital Equipment office for the latest
          information on other language versions and for details of sup-
          ported multilingual configurations.

          The following WPS-PLUS functionality is available:

             A spelling verifier and corrector that can be used in con-
             junction with up to 12,000 additional user-specific words

                                         42

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Optional Software

          o  TeamRoute for ALL-IN-1 OpenVMS VAX V1.2

          o  TeamLinks Mail for Microsoft Windows V2.1 (SPD 55.49.xx)

          o  TeamLinks Mail for Macintosh V2.0 (SPD 39.62.xx)

          o  PATHWORKS for DOS V4.0 or higher

          o  PATHWORKS for OpenVMS VAX V4.0 or higher

                and/or [1]

          o  PATHWORKS V5 for OpenVMS Alpha AXP

          o  VAX Message Router V3.3a (V3.3a is included with the ALL-IN-1
             Kit) Not available on OpenVMS AXP.

          o  VAX Message Router OpenVMS Gateway V3.3 (V3.3 included with
             the ALL-IN-1 Kit)

          o  DECnet OSI V5.6B (Note: Long node names are not supported)

          o  One of the supported JSB TCP/IP stacks and DEC TCP/IP Ser-
             vices for OpenVMS VAX (UCX for OpenVMS) V2.0 or third party
             DEC TCP/IP Services emulation software

                and/or

          o  One of the supported JSB TCP/IP stacks and DEC TCP/IP Ser-
             vices for OpenVMS AXP V3.0

          o  Any product supporting the WinSockets API Vn.n and PATHWORKS
             or DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS

          o  DEC Notes V2.5 for OpenVMS (included with the ALL-IN-1 Kit
             and required for Group Conferencing but not licensed for
             ALL-IN-1 STARTER or ALL-IN-1 Client Services Access)

          ___________________
        [1] and/or indicates that this software is available on OpenVMS
            Alpha AXP as well as OpenVMS VAX systems and that both may
            be required on mixed architecture clusters depending upon
	    customer needs.

                                         43

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          o  ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option V1.0 for OpenVMS (re-
             quired for remote distributed sharing)

          o  VAX ACMS V3.3 (not available on OpenVMS Alpha AXP)

          o  DEC DATATRIEVE V6.1 for OpenVMS (VAX and Alpha AXP versions
             available)

          o  VAX Grammar Checker V1.0 (VAX only available). Available in
             American English only.

          o  DEC RALLY V2.1 or later for OpenVMS VAX Systems

                and/or

          o  DEC RALLY V3.2 for OpenVMS AXP Systems

          o  DEC VTX V5.1 (VAX only available)

          o  CDA Converter Library for OpenVMS V2.2 (VAX only available)

          o  Usage alert that provides brief definitions of easily con-
             fused words, such as "effect" and "affect" or "guarantee" and
             "guaranty". (Available in American English only.)

          o  Electronic thesaurus, based on the Houghton Mifflin Roget's
             II: The New Thesaurus, which allows users to obtain syn-
             onyms, including inflections (i.e., -ed, -ing, -ly) and short
             definitions based on parts of speech for a selected word.
             (Available in American English only.)

          Note: DECdx/OpenVMS is only required to allow users to transfer
          DX documents between Digital's mainframes (in conjunction with
          DECdx/RSTS, DECdx/RSX, and DECdx/TOPS-20).

          Known Restrictions

          ALL-IN-1 PC Server V1.0 and ALL-IN-1 DESKtop for OpenVMS VAX
          V1.1 and V1.2 do not interoperate with ALL-IN-1 Office Server
          for OpenVMS VAX V3.1.

          ALL-IN-1 DECwindows Services for OpenVMS VAX V1.0 does not
          interoperate with ALL-IN-1 Office Server for OpenVMS VAX V3.1.

                                         44

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          ALL-IN-1 Electronic Authorisation and Routing Services V2.0 and
          V2.1 do not interoperate with ALL-IN-1 Office Server for OpenVMS
          VAX V3.1.

          ALL-IN-1 Personal Assistant for OpenVMS VAX V1.1 does not inter-
          operate with ALL-IN-1 Office Server for OpenVMS VAX V3.1.

          Mobilizer for ALL-IN-1 V1.0 and V1.0a do not interoperate with
          ALL-IN-1 Office Server for OpenVMS V3.1

          Mobilizer for POQET V1.0 does not interoperate with ALL-IN-1
          Office Server for OpenVMS V3.1

          Optional Lexicons for WPS-PLUS V3.1 are not compatible with
          WPS-PLUS V4.2. Contact your Digital Equipment Sales office for
          availability information.

          Customers should contact providers of any currently integrated
          third-party products regarding compatibility with ALL-IN-1
          Office Server V3.1 on VAX and Alpha AXP, or contact their local
          Digital Equipment Sales Office for specific information on
          layered product availability and interoperability with ALL-IN-1
          Office Server V3.1.

          GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

          The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future ver-
          sion of this product may be different from the requirements for
          the current version.

          LICENSING - MIGRATION to OpenVMS Alpha AXP

          In addition to the four licensing options (ALL-IN-1 IOS,
          ALL-IN-1 STARTER, ALL-IN-1 Core Services and ALL-IN-1 Client
          Services Access) available from the one kit, new licenses are
          also available enabling migration from traditional ALL-IN-1
          IOS and ALL-IN-1 STARTER licenses on ALL-IN-1 VAX to the newer
          licenses on ALL-IN-1 AXP.

                                         45

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Customers with full ALL-IN-1 IOS for OpenVMS VAX V3.0 can mi-
          grate to ALL-IN-1 Core Services or ALL-IN-1 Client Services
          Access on Open VMS AXP, if these options better suit the needs
          of the organisation. These two migration paths are valid for
          systems that are currently licensed on a Capacity or Personal
          Use basis. The same migration options apply to existing ALL-IN-1
          STARTER for OpenVMS VAX V3.0 systems.


          MIGRATION OPTIONS to ALL-IN-1 AXP V3.1
          ________________________________________________________________
              ALL-IN-1 for                      ALL-IN-1 for OpenVMS
          __OpenVMS_VAX_V3.0_______________________Alpha_AXP_V3.1_________

          Full        Capacity    ->     ALL-IN-1    Capacity, Personal or
          ALL-IN-1                       Core        Concurrent
          IOS                            Services

          Full        Personal    ->     ALL-IN-1    Personal or Concur-
          ALL-IN-1                       Core        rent
          IOS                            Services

          Full        Capacity    ->     ALL-IN-1    Capacity, Personal or
          ALL-IN-1                       Client      Concurrent
          IOS                            Services
                                         Access

          Full        Personal    ->     ALL-IN-1    Personal or Concur-
          ALL-IN-1                       Client      rent
          IOS                            Services
                                         Access

          ALL-IN-1    Capacity    ->     ALL-IN-1    Capacity, Personal or
          STARTER                        Core        Concurrent
                                         Services




                                         46

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
              ALL-IN-1 for                      ALL-IN-1 for OpenVMS
          __OpenVMS_VAX_V3.0_______________________Alpha_AXP_V3.1_________


          ALL-IN-1    Personal    ->     ALL-IN-1    Personal or Concur-
          STARTER                        Core        rent
                                         Services

          ALL-IN-1    Capacity    ->     ALL-IN-1    Capacity, Personal or
          STARTER                        Client      Concurrent
                                         Services
                                         Access

          ALL-IN-1    Personal    ->     ALL-IN-1    Personal or Concur-
          STARTER                        Client      rent
                                         Services
          _______________________________Access___________________________

          Note: These migration options do not apply between ALL-IN-1 VAX
          V3.0 systems and ALL-IN-1 VAX V3.1 systems.

          Trade-Up-To-User programme on ALL-IN-1 VAX and ALL-IN-1 AXP

          Existing Capacity based ALL-IN-1 VAX V3.0 systems can convert
          to User licensing via the Trade-Up-To-User field programme and
          then deploy the resulting Personal or Concurrent licenses on
          any ALL-IN-1 V3.0 VAX or V3.1 VAX or V3.1 AXP system in the
          organisation. These User licenses have the same Unique Product
          Identifier (UPI) and corporate list price on VAX and AXP systems
          and can therefore be deployed at will.

          Note: Concurrent Use licenses cannot be installed on ALL-IN-1
          systems prior to V3.1.

          The existing ALL-IN-1 STARTER VAX migration to full ALL-IN-1 IOS
          VAX is also retained (UPI=VNP) for V3.1 systems. For customers
          that only have access to ALL-IN-1 STARTER V2.4 systems they must
          first upgrade to full ALL-IN-1 IOS VAX V3.0 before a transition
          to any of the licensing options available on either VAX V3.1 or

                                         47

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          Alpha AXP V3.1. A temporary license PAK will be supplied free of
          charge to customers in countries where ALL-IN-1 STARTER V3.0 is
          not available. This will enable them to install full ALL-IN-1
          IOS VAX V3.0 and then be in a position to move to any of the
          available options on either VAX V3.1 or Alpha AXP V3.1.


































                                         48

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          ORDERING INFORMATION

          ALL-IN-1 OFFICE SERVER LICENSING OPTIONS FOR OpenVMS ALPHA AXP
          V3.1
          ________________________________________________________________
                          ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office Server
          ________________(IOS)_for_OpenVMS_Alpha_AXP_V3.1________________

          Software Licenses:        QL-2XCN*-** Capacity
                                    QL-AAANA-2B Personal
                                    QL-AAANA-3B Concurrent

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-2XCN*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Licenses         QL-AAB**-2B Personal
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Media Sec-       QA-AAB*A-H*
          ondary Lang:

          ________________________________________________________________
          ________ALL-IN-1_Core_Services_for_OpenVMS_Alpha_AXP_V3.1_______

          Software Licenses:        QL-2XDN*-** Capacity
                                    QL-246NA-2B Personal
                                    QL-246NA-3B Concurrent

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*


                                         49

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
          ________ALL-IN-1_Core_Services_for_OpenVMS_Alpha_AXP_V3.1_______

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-2XDN*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Licenses         QL-AAB**-2B Personal
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Media Sec-       QA-AAB*A-H*
          ondary Lang:

          ________________________________________________________________
          ___ALL-IN-1_Client_Services_Access_for_OpenVMS_Alpha_AXP_V3.1___

          Software Licenses:        QL-2XGA*-** Capacity
                                    QL-2DGAA-2B Personal
                                    QL-2DGAA-3B Concurrent

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-2XGA*-**
          Services:






                                         50

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
          ___________ALL-IN-1_STARTER_for_OpenVMS_Alpha_AXP_V3.1__________

          Software Licenses:        QL-2X4N*-** Capacity
                                    QL-VNNNA-2B Personal
                                    QL-VNNNA-3B Concurrent

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-2X4N*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Licenses         QL-VX8**-2B Personal
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Media Sec-       QA-AAB*A-H*
          ondary_Lang:____________________________________________________














                                         51

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          ALL-IN-1 OFFICE SERVER LICENSING OPTIONS for OpenVMS VAX V3.1
          ________________________________________________________________
          __ALL-IN-1_Integrated_Office_Server_(IOS)_for_OpenVMS_VAX_V3.1__

          Software Licenses:        QL-AAAN*-**

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-AAAN*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-AAB**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Licenses         QL-AAB**-2B Personal
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Media Sec-       QA-AAB*A-H*
          ondary Language:

















                                         52

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
          ________________________________________________________________

          ___________ALL-IN-1_Core_Services_for_OpenVMS_VAX_V3.1__________

          Software Licenses:        QL-246N*-**

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-246N*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-AAB**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Licenses         QL-AAB**-2B Personal
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Media Sec-       QA-AAB*A-H*
          ondary Language:

















                                         53

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
          ________________________________________________________________

          ______ALL-IN-1_Client_Services_Access_for_OpenVMS_VAX_V3.1______

          Software Licenses:        QL-2DGA*-**

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-2DGA*-**
          Services:

          ________________________________________________________________
          ______________ALL-IN-1_STARTER_for_OpenVMS_VAX_V3.1_____________

          Software Licenses:        QL-VNNN*-**

          Software Media:           QA-AAANA-H*

          Complete Documentation    QA-AAANA-GZ
          Kit:

          Software Product          QT-VNNN*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-VX8**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Licenses         QL-VX8**-2B Personal
          Secondary Lang:

          Software Media Sec-       QA-AAB*A-H*
          ondary_Language:________________________________________________




                                         54

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          ALL-IN-1 OFFICE SERVER MIGRATION OPTIONS to OpenVMS Alpha AXP
          ________________________________________________________________
                ALL-IN-1 IOS OpenVMS VAX V3.0 and VAX V3.1 migration
          _________to_ALL-IN-1_Core_Services_for_OpenVMS_AXP_V3.1_________

          Software Licenses:        QL-2ZNN*-** Capacity

          Software Product          QT-2XDN*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:

          ________________________________________________________________
               ALL-IN-1 IOS OpenVMS VAX V3.0 and VAX V3.1 migration to
          ______ALL-IN-1_Client_Services_Access_for_OpenVMS_AXP_V3.1______

          Software Licenses:        QL-2ZQA*-**

          Software Product          QT-2XGA*-**
          Services:

          ________________________________________________________________
                   ALL-IN-1 STARTER VAX V3.0 and V3.1 migration to
          ___________ALL-IN-1_Core_Services_for_OpenVMS_AXP_V3.1__________

          Software Licenses:        QL-2ZPN*-** Capacity

          Software Product          QT-2XDN*-**
          Services:

          Software Licenses         QL-2Y0**-** Capacity
          Secondary Lang:






                                         55

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05

          ________________________________________________________________

                 ALL-IN-1 STARTER VAX V3.0 and VAX V3.1 migration to
          ______ALL-IN-1_Client_Services_Access_for_OpenVMS_AXP_V3.1______

          Software Licenses:        QL-1ZRA*-**

          Software Product          QT-2XGA*-**
          Services:_______________________________________________________

          Note: Q*-***L*-**: L means language identifier

          Language identifiers:

          o  A = US

          o  D = DANSK

          o  F = SUOMI

          o  G = DEUTSCH

          o  H = NEDERLANDS

          o  M = SVENSKA

          o  N = NORSK

          o  P = FRANÇAIS

          o  S = ESPAÑOL

          o  U = ITALIANO

          o  V = PORTUGUÊS



                                         56

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          ALL-IN-1/US/EN/EUROPE V3.1

          QA-AAAAE-H*

          -  the software includes British- and American English

          -  the software includes support for US, UK, Canada, France,
             Germany, Italy, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Norway,
             Switzerland, Belgium, Portugal and Netherlands.

          Please contact your Digital Equipment office for availability
          information.

          Table of Licensing and Migration Options
          ________________________________________________________________
                             AXP
          VAX________UPI_____UPIs_________________________________________

          Current                                   ALL-IN-1
          Li-             ALL-IN-1  ALL-IN-1 Core   Client Ser-    ALL-IN-1
          cense___________IOS_______Services________vices_Access___STARTER

          ALL-IN-1   AAA  2XC
          IOS

          ALL-IN-1   AAA             2ZN (same
          IOS                        price as 2XD)

          ALL-IN-1   AAA                            2ZQ (same
          IOS                                       price as 2XG)

          ALL-IN-1   246             2XD
          Core
          Ser-
          vices




                                         57

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05


          ________________________________________________________________
                          AXP
          VAX________UPI__UPIs_________________________________________

          Current                                   ALL-IN-1
          Li-             ALL-IN-1  ALL-IN-1 Core   Client Ser-    ALL-IN-1
          cense___________IOS_______Services________vices_Access___STARTER

          ALL-IN-1   2DG                            2XG
          Client
          Ser-
          vices

          ALL-IN-1   VNN            2ZP (same
          STARTER                   price as 2XD)

          ALL-IN-1   VNN                            1ZR (same
          STARTER                                   price as 2XG)

          ALL-IN-1   VNN                                           2X4
          STARTER_________________________________________________________


          Additional Documentation

          ALL-IN-1/US Management Documentation:

             QA-AAAAB-GZ

          ALL-IN-1/US AP&I Documentation Kit:

             QA-AAAAC-GZ








                                         58

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server API Documentation Kit:

             QA-AAAAL-GZ

          ALL-IN-1 General User Documentation Kit:

             QA-AAANM-GZ


          ALL-IN-1 Super User Documentation Kit:

             QA-AABNA-GZ

          *    Denotes variant fields. For additional information on
               available licenses, services, and media, refer to the
               appropriate price book.


          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital Equipment's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more
          information about Digital Equipment's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital Equipment office.

          Operational Restriction

          A TeamLinks connection to ALL-IN-1 cannot be established if the
          TeamLinks ALL-IN-1 account is based on an account where multiple
          ALL-IN-1 users share a single OpenVMS account. Each TeamLinks
          user must have an individual ALL-IN-1 account.

          Note also:

          o  Every user of ALL-IN-1 must be a registered OpenVMS and
             ALL-IN-1user. Upon acquiring a new Personal Use or Concur-
             rent Use license of any type a new TeamLinks user must be


                                         59

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



             registered as such by the ALL-IN-1 system manager or admin-
             istrator. If no individual TeamLinks named user registration
             occurs, that user will be denied access to ALL-IN-1 V3.1

          o  Non-TeamLinks Clients accessing ALL-IN-1 via the published
             APIs must also be registered OpenVMS and ALL-IN-1 users.

          License Management Facility Support

          This layered product supports the OpenVMS V1.1 License Manage-
          ment Facility.

          License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited
          System Use plus Personal Use basis and Concurrent Use basis.

          Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to
          use the layered product.

          In addition, ALL-IN-1 provides a Personal Licensing Reporting
          Tool. System Managers and Administrators can easily recognize
          when the authorized (purchased) personal license limit has been
          reached or exceeded.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
          to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description
          (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility Manual of the
          OpenVMS VAX Operating System documentation set.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of services and options are available from Digital
          Equipment. For more information, contact your local Digital
          Equipment office.






                                         60

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05



          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          For a detailed description of software warranty please refer to
          Digital Equipment's Standard Terms and Conditions.

          [R]  Apple and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple
               Computer, Inc.

          [R]  HP, DeskJet, and LaserJet are registered trademarks of
               Hewlett-Packard Corporation.

          [R]  IBM and ProPrinter are registered trademarks of Interna-
               tional Business Machines Corporation.

          [R]  Microsoft and MS-DOS are registered trademarks of Microsoft
               Corporation.

          [R]  OSF/1 is a registered trademark of Open Software Founda-
               tion, Inc.

          [R]  KEYpak is a registered trademark of Keyword Office Tech-
               nologies.

          [R]  PinWriter is a registered trademark of NEC Corporation.

          [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

          [R]  Toshiba is a registered trademark of Kabushiki Kaisha
               Toshiba.

          [TM] Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.








                                         61

 


          ALL-IN-1/NORSK Office Server Options for OpenVMS AXP and OpenVMS
	  VAX V3.1						SPD 25.B1.05




          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, ALL-IN-1, Alpha AXP, CDA, CI, Com-
               pacTape, DATATRIEVE, DDIF, DEC, DEC Notes, DEC RALLY,
               DECVTX, DECdx, DECdx/RSTS, DEClaser, DECmate, DECnet,
               DECserver, DECstation, DECterm, DECtrace, DECwindows,
               DECwrite, Digital, DTIF, DX, EDT, FMS, LA, LA50, LA75,
               LA324, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LQP02, MAILbus, MicroVAX, Open-
               VMS, PATHWORKS, PrintServer, RSX, TeamLinks, TK, TOPS-20,
               ULTRIX, VAX, VAX FMS, VAX TEAMDATA, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAX-
               mate, VAXserver, VAXstation, VT100, VT220, VT300, VT320,
               VT330, VT340, VT420, WPS, and WPS-PLUS are trademarks of
               Digital Equipment Corporation.

          © 1994 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

























                                         62
