 






           Software Product Description

           ___________________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  WPS-PLUS/NORSK på VMS, versjon 4.1      SPD 25.M3.03

           DESCRIPTION

           WPS-PLUS for VMS is a menu driven document processing software
           system that provides GOLD KEY style word processing for VMS
           users. It allows WPS-PLUS users to create, format and print
           documents that contain text, includes Encapsulated
           PostScript[R] (EPS) graphics and application data generated by
           a variety of Digital Equipment Corporation software products
           using the External Application Link. WPS-PLUS for VMS is
           installed as a layered product on VMS systems.

           WPS-PLUS for VMS software is compatible with Digital's Compound
           Document Architecture (CDA). Optional software which can
           provide document conversion to the Digital Data Interchange
           Format (DDIF) is available. DDIF files may also be imported
           into the WPS-PLUS system by using the document conversion
           features available from the WPS-PLUS Document Transfer
           Facility.

           The WPS-PLUS for VMS product provides word processing, EPS
           graphics inclusion, Two-Dimensional Editor, Editor Math, and
           List and Sort Processing capabilities. These features can be
           used to create high quality, sophisticated documents for
           distribution throughout the enterprise.

           Features

           WPS-PLUS for VMS software presents GOLD KEY style editing and
           other document processing functions through straightforward menu
           selections. Menus display options such as Create, Edit, Delete,
           Print, Read, Index, Send, Document Transfer, User-Defined
           Processing, File Cabinet Operations, Language Aids, List and
           Sort Processing and Training. Associated menu selections and
           options provide for additional and complementary functions.

           The WPS-PLUS for VMS editor supports a displayed ruler for
           defining text-positioning information such as left margin, tab
           stops, word wraps and right margins. Additional information such
           as justification of lines and positioning of EPS graphics is
           also defined using the ruler. Different levels of indentation
           and automatic word wrapping is possible without the need to
           redefine ruler settings.

           WPS-PLUS for VMS users can create and save an unlimited number
           of rulers with defined unique names. The ruler definition allows
           users to store, list, select, and delete any user named ruler.
           Rulers can also be stored system wide for WPS-PLUS users to list
           and access commonly used ruler definitions.


                                         DIGITAL                     July 1992

                                                                   AE-NQ52D-TE

           WPS-PLUS/NORSK på VMS, versjon 4.1                     SPD 25.M3.03

           Training/Help

           WPS-PLUS for VMS provides comprehensive, task-oriented, online
           training that is suitable for novices, as well as experienced
           users. Comprehensive training, including a New Features
           section, is available from a main menu selection. WPS-PLUS for
           VMS also provides extensive online Help that enables users to
           obtain information on keyboard layout, function keys, the
           current editing function, the current field in forms, and menu
           entries.

           An optionally displayed status line provides users with
           information such as the document name, folder and number, along
           with the current ruler settings. A displayed select mark is
           provided to inform users of the relative position and status of
           the select operation.

           Informational messages are displayed, when appropriate, to guide and
           help WPS-PLUS users through various document processing functions.

           Editor

           WPS-PLUS for VMS software includes a full word processing Editor
           with functions such as select, cut, paste, undelete, and
           navigation. Users can choose to edit documents in either insert
           or overstrike mode and retain the current rendition (for
           example, bold, underline) of text while editing. The WPS-PLUS
           for VMS product provides extensive search and replace
           capabilities including the ability to search for special
           characters. WPS-PLUS for VMS software allows for simultaneous
           editing of up to 10 documents, with the addition of 10
           fully-functional cut and paste buffers to move or copy text
           within a document, or from one document to another. The WPS-PLUS
           editor offers a directory of the open documents and allows users
           to access any open document while retaining the individual
           cursor position within each document. Automatic centering,
           underlining, bolding, uppercasing, double underscoring, su-
           perscripting and subscripting are available through easy to use
           key strokes. A customizable date and time stamp is available,
           from a menu selection, for WPS-PLUS users to create and display
           the format of their choice. The Editor window can be increased
           to extend view and edit capabilities up to 54 lines (on
           appropriate devices) in length.

           The WPS-PLUS editor provides language aids such as spell
           checking and correcting (using standard and optional lexicons),
           usage alert, and thesaurus. Optional lexicons are available for
           American English, British English, French, German, Dutch,
           Swedish, Spanish, Italian, Danish, Norwegian and Portuguese
           languages as well as for American Business (legal, business,
           finance) and American Medical terms. User-specific and
           system-wide shared dictionaries are available when spell
           checking and correcting a document. Refer to the System Support
           Addendum (SSA 25.M3.03-A).

           An optional grammar checker facility is available to complement the
           word processing capabilities of the WPS-PLUS for VMS system. Refer to
           System Support Addendum (SSA 25.M3.03-A).


                                            2


           WPS-PLUS/NORSK på VMS, versjon 4.1                     SPD 25.M3.03


           Advanced Editing

           Advanced editorial features such as redlining, change bars, full
           footnote and endnote creation, editing and searching, and an
           on-screen, twenty-five column editor makes WPS-PLUS for VMS
           software an appropriate application for documentation and
           publication groups. WPS-PLUS for VMS supports the Digital
           Multinational character set and technical characters.

           User-Defined Processes (UDPs) allow users to automate frequently
           repeated key sequences. UDPs may be defined and invoked from
           any menu or form, other UDPs, or while editing a document. Users
           can create, edit, list, print, or delete any number of UDPs.

           The Two-Dimensional Editor (TDE) allows users to create, edit,
           and position diagrams of any length that include horizontal
           and vertical lines, boxes, scientific equations, line drawings,
           charts, matrixes, and VT100 character set equations.

           List Processing and Sort Processing allow users to create
           customized documents, letters or reports. A running total of
           records processed can be displayed on the user's screen, or any
           number of List or Sort Processing jobs can be submitted to run
           in a background mode for other WPS-PLUS functions (such as
           document editing) to be performed simultaneously. Users are
           automatically informed when the job is complete and provided
           with a log of processed jobs.

           Management of background List or Sort Processing jobs is
           available by use of the Job Services option from a menu
           selection. Job Services Option allows users to view an index
           of active jobs, delete, and hold jobs within the queue.

           Editor Math allows users to perform calculations with four math
           function capabilities.

           The WPS-PLUS for VMS product provides advanced users the ability
           to link into a variety of software products by using the
           External Application Link (XAL).

           With a few keystrokes, users can select abbreviation and library
           documents to insert stored words, phrases, and paragraphs.

           Integrated Filing System

           WPS-PLUS for VMS software provides an integrated filing system
           with a File Cabinet for each user. The File Cabinet features:
           document and folder names, user defined keywords for each
           document, and retrieval by folder or document name, keyword or
           number. A document folders index can be viewed while selecting
           documents. The ability to delete, copy, or cross-file documents
           into other folders allows for a truly organized and easy to use
           filing system.

           The WPS-PLUS for VMS product allows multiple users to access and
           edit common, system-wide WPS-PLUS documents by using the
           Reference External file feature.


                                            3

            WPS-PLUS/NORSK på VMS, versjon 4.1                     SPD 25.M3.03


           Formatting and Printing

           Printer tables contain both the attribute and character
           definitions necessary to support a specific printer along with
           sheet feeder or bin selection information when applicable.
           WPS-PLUS for VMS allows users to create or modify printer
           tables, allowing each user to maintain unique printer tables.
           User options include the ability to create a table from an
           existing system table, edit, print, rename, or delete printer
           tables.

           WPS-PLUS for VMS provides full proportional printing and spacing
           capabilities, and support of PostScript devices. If desired,
           WPS-PLUS software will wrap text automatically. To format and
           print properly, proportional printing takes into consideration
           tab positions, centering, tabular columns, and justification
           settings. Changing fonts and point sizes within lines of text is
           performed easily by assigning renditions (for example, bold,
           underline, etc.) to print in any valid specified font and
           size. For justified text, users may wish to enhance the final
           appearance of their documents by selecting user-definable hang-
           ing punctuation.

           When formatting a document, users can specify which standard or
           optional language lexicon to use with automatic hyphenation.
           Refer to System Support Addendum (SSA 25.M3.03-A).

           The print facility supports stored settings that allow users to
           define page size and layout, top and bottom margins,
           inter-column spacing, and horizontal and vertical pitch
           values. Dynamic pagination is user-controlled and settings can
           be defined within the actual document. Users can choose to mix
           portrait and landscape pages within a single document and define
           differing numbering schemes for pages, footnotes or sections.
           WPS-PLUS for VMS software automatically allows for the placement
           of headers and footers at the top or bottom of each page with an
           optional alternating fashion. Printing of multiple column ta-
           bles, automatic page numbering, control of widows and orphans,
           nonbreaking blocks of text, one-pass paragraph numbering,
           tables of contents, tables of authorities, and indexes are
           examples of the extensive formatting features available within
           the WPS-PLUS for VMS product.

           A menu selection allows users to print documents (on supported
           devices) in number up, simplex, duplex, and tumble print styles
           and to specify different page sizes on appropriate devices.
           Refer to System Support Addendum (SSA 25.M3.03-A).

           Printing WPS-PLUS-created PostScript files to non-PostScript
           devices is also supported by using the optional DECprint Utility
           for PostScript to Sixel Printing for VMS (SPD 31.56.xx).

           Management of background printing jobs is available through use
           of the Job Services Option from a menu selection.




                                            4

           WPS-PLUS/NORSK på VMS, versjon 4.1                     SPD 25.M3.03

           Graphics

           WPS-PLUS for VMS provides users with the ability to include,
           size, and position Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) graphic files.
           EPS files can be scaled horizontally and vertically to exact
           dimensions in either inches or centimeters. The WPS-PLUS for VMS
           product supplies users with over 100 EPS graphic art images that
           can be used to enhance the visual impact of their documents.

           Conversions and Transferring Documents

           WPS-PLUS for VMS allows users to interchange documents between
           supported personal computers running WPS-PLUS/DOS. Documents
           can also be transferred to and from the DECmate II and DECmate
           III workstations. Conversion of documents to the Digital Data
           Interchange Format (DDIF), DX, and ASCII file formats is
           available as is the ability to import documents from these
           respective formats.

           A menu selection allows users to choose to convert a WPS-PLUS
           document, minus text attributes, to a VMS file and send it
           using VMSmail.

           High Quality Output

           The WPS-PLUS for VMS document processing system provides the
           necessary tools to allow for the creation and printing of high
           quality, professional looking documents.

           o  Proportional printing

           o  Support of PostScript devices

           o  Automatic hyphenation

           o  Inclusion of scalable Encapsulated PostScript graphics

           o  Over 100 EPS graphics art images

           o  Extensive document customization

           o  Full array of language aids

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and/or configurations as specified in the System
           Support Addendum (SSA 25.M3.03-A).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VAX FMS (Runtime Only System)

           VAX ScriptPrinter Software is required to print non-PostScript files
           to a ScriptPrinter.

           Note: VAX FMS Runtime Only System is a prerequisite to run
           WPS-PLUS for VMS. The Runtime Only System is included in the
           complete FMS product kit, but can be purchased separately. The
           complete VAX FMS product kit is not required.


                                            5


           WPS-PLUS/NORSK på VMS, versjon 4.1                     SPD 25.M3.03


           Customers who have not purchased the complete FMS product kit, must
           purchase the FMS Runtime Only System software license as well as the
           FMS Runtime Only Media Kit.

           *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.M3.03-A) for avail-
              ability and versions of required software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-AAMN*-**
           Software Media: QA-AAMN*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-AAMNA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-AAMN*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on
           available licenses, services and media, refer to the
           appropriate price book.












































                                            6

 



           WPS-PLUS/NORSK på VMS, versjon 4.1                     SPD 25.M3.03


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
           Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
           formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
           local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management
           Facility. License units for this product are allocated on an
           Unlimited Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

           This layered product offers a Personal Use license. Each
           Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
           layered product.

           This layered product offers a Concurrent Use license. Each
           Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time to
           use the layered product.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
           to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
           25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
           Operating System documentation set.

           For more information on Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
           tact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
           formation contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
           the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
           Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R] PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

           [R] HP and LaserJet are registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard
               Company.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, CI, DEClaser, DECmate, DECpage,
               DECprint, DECwrite, DX, FMS, LQP02, LA50, LA324, PrintServer,
               MicroVAX, TK, VAX, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT, VT100,
               VT300, and WPS-PLUS, are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corpo-
               ration.







                                            7
