 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 200 for VMS, Version 3.3      SPD 27.53.07

 DESCRIPTION

 The DECserver 200 Terminal Server is a network terminal switch for Eth-
 ernet Local Area Networks. The DECserver 200 provides a convenient method
 to logically connect up to eight Digital asynchronous terminals to one
 or more service nodes (hosts) on an Ethernet. Once the terminal is con-
 nected, a user, with a few exceptions, can utilize application pro-
 grams and utilities as though the terminal were directly connected to
 a host via a DZ11, DMF32, or DHU11 device. Thus, it may be possible
 to utilize the DECserver 200 to connect all terminals, except for host
 console terminals to service nodes in place of traditional interfaces.
 Remote connection via dial-in modems is fully supported.

 The DECserver 200 also allows for OpenVMS host-initiated connections
 to serial printers. A special print symbiont on OpenVMS service nodes
 can initiate connections to serial printers connected to DECserver 200
 ports. This allows the printers to be distributed throughout a facil-
 ity and accessed transparently by service node users. Incoming host-
 initiated connect requests may be queued first in/first out (FIFO) at
 the server.

 The DECserver 200 also provides the capability to connect host sys-
 tems that do not support the LAT (Local Area Transport) protocol, Dig-
 ital personal computers, and dial-out modems directly to ports on the
 server. Interactive server users can issue commands to connect to ser-
 vices that are offered on such ports. Port-to-port connections on the
 same server are also supported.




                               DIGITAL                    April 1994

                                                         AE-JC42H-TE

 

 The DECserver 200 implements the Local Area Transport protocol for com-
 munication with service nodes that implement this protocol on the same
 Ethernet. This interface has been optimized for high terminal I/O per-
 formance over an Ethernet, while reducing host CPU cycles required to
 handle interrupts. Hence, under most I/O loading conditions, a sig-
 nificant performance gain may be realized by using the DECserver 200
 versus direct terminal connections via DZ11s.

 The DECserver 200 also implements and supports the Terminal Device/Session
 Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple sessions at the de-
 vice level. The DECserver 200 provides the ability to communicate with
 devices that also implement this protocol, and assists in the manage-
 ment of multiple sessions for these devices. By implementing this pro-
 tocol, the DECserver 200 can permit attached devices to maintain screen
 and keyboard context for multiple LAT sessions, as well as allow these
 devices to run multiple LAT sessions concurrently.

 The DECserver 200 implements the ODL (On Demand Loading) font load-
 ing protocol which allows Asian terminals that implement the ODL pro-
 tocol to communicate with an OpenVMS host via a terminal server. The
 Asian terminals will be able to request font definitions from an Open-
 VMS host when connected to a DECserver 200.

 Software that runs on the DECserver 200 is downline loaded over the
 network from a Phase IV DECnet load host. Terminal access using the
 DECserver 200 does not require DECnet running in the same service node;
 LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism to transport terminal mes-
 sages. The DECserver 200 server software will operate with all Dig-
 ital service nodes which support the LAT protocol.

 Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal sessions, au-
 tomatic failover, and remote printer support can lead to greater user
 productivity.

 For wide area network communications, terminal users can connect to
 a local service node running DECnet, where they can "SET HOST" to a
 remote system via the DECnet network terminal protocol. If this sys-
 tem has the requisite X.25 or SNA 3270 access routines, a terminal user


                                  2

 

 could communicate to a remote SNA or X.25 host through the appropri-
 ate gateway and this intervening host. A DECserver 200 terminal user
 cannot communicate directly to remote hosts through DECnet Routers or
 X.25/SNA Gateways. Wide area network traffic will not provide the same
 high level of performance as local terminal connections, due to the
 additional DECnet and Internet protocol overhead.

 Features

 Terminal Connection Management

 Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical con-
 nection, called a session, to any service node that implements the LAT
 protocol on the same Ethernet LAN. This connection makes the termi-
 nal appear as if it were physically connected to the service node, and
 the terminal user can use standard system utilities and applications
 supported by that node. Each terminal connected to the server can con-
 nect to the same or a different service node on the Ethernet. Further-
 more, several servers can be used to connect many terminals to one or
 more service nodes.

 A service node can have one or more services that are offered to DEC-
 server 200 users. Services and nodes are identified by name. Users al-
 ways connect to services, not to nodes, although often one of the ser-
 vice names will be the node name.

 In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 200 sees each VAXcluster
 on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering a common ser-
 vice. Each cluster node may also offer a service whose name is equiv-
 alent to its node name. In this case, a terminal user can connect ei-
 ther to the cluster service or a service associated with a particu-
 lar cluster node.

 Non-LAT Host Support

 The DECserver 200 can be used to provide logical terminal connections
 to hosts that do not implement the LAT protocol. In this type of con-
 figuration, the server becomes the Ethernet connection and protocol
 support for these hosts. This expands the LAT network accessibility
 to the terminal user to include LAT hosts directly connected to the

                                  3

 

 same Ethernet and hosts connected to the LAT network via the DECserver
 200.

 A host that supports XON/XOFF, ASCII standards and EIA RS-232-C/CCITT
 V.24/V.28 interfaces can be connected to the DECserver 200. This pro-
 vides the terminal user with a transparent connection to the non-LAT
 host. It is strongly recommended that server port and the host side
 port utilize modem control signals to automatically signal the host
 upon session disconnection.

 In this configuration, there is a one-to-one correspondence between
 the port on a DECserver 200 and the connection on the host. The server
 manager assigns service names to individual ports or groups of ports
 that connect the host interface to the server.

 Load Balancing

 When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the con-
 nection is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process
 the server uses when more than one node offers the same service. Ser-
 vice nodes do not have to be configured in a cluster in order for load
 balancing to be used. Service nodes with the same names may be run-
 ning different operating systems. Using the load balancing process,
 the server connects to the node with the highest rating for the ser-
 vice desired. This rating is based on the current loading on the nodes
 that offer the service.

 Multiple Sessions

 The DECserver 200 allows each user to establish and maintain up to 8
 sessions to one or more service nodes, up to a maximum of 64 per DEC-
 server 200. Only one session per user can be active at a time. Through
 simple switching commands, the user can access the different sessions
 without repeating a login dialog each time. Some operating systems may
 impose limits on the number of LAT sessions such a host will support.

 Multiple Session Management



                                  4

 

 The DECserver 200 server allows direct communication with devices that
 support the TD/SMP protocol. This protocol provides the ability for
 the attached device to maintain screen and keyboard context for the
 multiple LAT sessions which the DECserver 200 provides. By implement-
 ing the ability to directly communicate with this protocol to the at-
 tached device, the DECserver 200 can now assist in the management of
 context of these multiple sessions, as well as allow for simultane-
 ous output to multiple LAT sessions being maintained by the device.

 Outbound Connection Queues

 If a terminal user requests a connection to a server, and the requested
 service is currently in use, the terminal server users may opt to have
 the connection requested queued to the remote service. This feature
 will happen automatically whenever a connection fails for this rea-
 son, if the user's port has been appropriately configured. The con-
 nection request is queued at the service node end and is processed first
 in/first out until such time as the user's connection request can be
 completed. This feature assists in the fair management of limited net-
 work resources. Once queued for connection, the user also has the op-
 tion to cancel the queue entry and proceed with other sessions.

 Welcome Identification

 The DECserver 200 server standard welcome banner, which includes ter-
 minal server type, version number, internal baselevel, and protocol
 version number, is issued whenever a user successfully logs in to the
 server. The server will also print a server manager settable identi-
 fication string. This can be useful for automatic server identifica-
 tion, or for small daily messages used for communication with the ter-
 minal server users.

 Local Mode and Service Mode

 For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver 200 is
 identical to that the user would experience if attached directly to
 the service node. When operating in this mode, the user is said to be
 in Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during connection establish-
 ment, the user interacts directly with the DECserver 200. When oper-
 ating in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

                                  5

 

 In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by the DEC-
 server 200 as commands to be performed by the server. The local mode
 prompt can be modified by a privileged command and can be changed from
 LOCAL> to any printable characters (up to 16 characters).

 Additional commands and displays to support the features available with
 the TD/SMP protocol are usable in Local Mode. These commands will be
 used to enable or disable server recognition of the TD/SMP commands.

 Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, non-
 privileged, and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the Server Man-
 ager to control the environment of the server and the terminal users.
 Access to this mode is password protected. Nonprivileged commands al-
 low terminal users to control their service sessions, set their ter-
 minal characteristics, and show server information. The Server Man-
 ager can set the server to secure mode on a per-terminal basis, which
 further limits the commands and displays of services and nodes that
 users can enter to only those which directly relate to the user's own
 terminal.

 The Server Manager environment is a logical extension of the user en-
 vironment. The Server Manager is treated as a server user with a priv-
 ileged status. The Server Manager sets a terminal to this status us-
 ing a command which requires a password. This privileged status al-
 lows the Server Manager to enter commands not normally available to
 server users. These commands set server characteristics, provide con-
 trol over server port usage, and provide the ability to control the
 user's access to the server and network services.

 In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected
 service node with several exceptions. One exception, called the lo-
 cal switch character, allows the user to enter Local Mode from Ser-
 vice Mode. The BREAK key may also be used for this function. Other ex-
 ceptions, called the forward and backward switch characters, allow the
 user to switch between sessions without the need to enter local mode.
 The switch characters are disabled by default but may be enabled by
 command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally but
 flow control using these characters can be disabled.


                                  6

 

 Autoconnection

 Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user ter-
 minal to a service node when connection failures occur or upon user
 login to the server. In conjunction with this function, a dedicated
 or preferred service can be specified for each terminal user.

 If a dedicated service is specified, the DECserver 200 will attempt
 to connect to that service when a character is typed on the terminal
 keyboard or when an existing connection fails. In dedicated service
 mode, only one session is available. As this mode is designed to sim-
 ulate a direct terminal connection, no local mode commands or messages
 are available to the terminal user. Ports with dedicated service can
 be automatically logged out of the server when the user logs out of
 the service node.

 If a preferred service is specified, the DECserver 200 will attempt
 to connect to that service as with the dedicated service mode of op-
 eration. However, the terminal user can enter local mode and estab-
 lish other sessions.

 Automatic Session Failover

 If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a connec-
 tion to a service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user
 to another service node offering the same service. The user does not
 have to be already connected to that service node. Furthermore, the
 user's context at the time of failure is not automatically restored
 and login to the new service is required.

 Groups

 Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one
 or more groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 0 to 255.
 Groups allow an easy means of subdividing the network into what ap-
 pears to be many smaller networks. A terminal user is only aware of
 the services that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).



                                  7

 

 The Server Manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a ter-
 minal is a member. The authorized groups define the set of services
 that the user is allowed to access. In addition, a user can further
 restrict access to services by disabling some of the authorized groups
 using a nonprivileged group command. The user-settable group codes are
 a subset of the authorized groups.

 Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view
 is mainly for user convenience and, although it also provides a form
 of security, it is not intended to be the primary form of access au-
 thorization or system security for a node.

 Security

 The DECserver 200 provides functions that enhance security features
 already available in the service nodes. DECserver 200 security includes
 the ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from other users, optional
 login protection, and nonprivileged local mode of operation as a de-
 fault.

 A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the
 user to leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of secu-
 rity violations. When a terminal is locked, all input from the ter-
 minal is ignored until the lock password is reentered. The lock fea-
 ture may be disabled by the Server Manager.

 Each terminal port can be set to operate in a secure mode, which causes
 all commands that relate to other users to be disabled for that port.

 Login passwords can be enabled on a per-line basis by the Server Man-
 ager. If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login password to ac-
 cess server functions.

 DECserver 200 users normally have access to the nonprivileged local
 mode. In this mode, users may only issue commands that affect their
 own terminal environment. The server has a privileged mode for server
 manager's use. The mode is password protected.

 Online HELP Facility

                                  8

 

 A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP
 command provides information on the correct syntax and details about
 each command. In addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users
 to quickly learn the basics of DECserver 200 operation. Tutorial HELP
 may be entered upon logging into the server.

 Directory Service

 Any DECserver 200 user can obtain a directory of services available
 to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for which the user
 is not authorized will not be displayed.

 Permanent Characteristics

 The DECserver 200 maintains permanent characteristics in nonvolatile
 memory which is retained even when the power is disconnected. Perma-
 nent characteristics are maintained for service and server parameters
 as well as per-port parameters. Permanent characteristics can be re-
 set to factory defaults by pressing the software reset button on the
 hardware unit while plugging in the power cord.

 Port Characteristics Configuration

 Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be
 displayed by nonprivileged terminal users interactively from their ter-
 minal. Many of the characteristics may be set up by the user, but cer-
 tain characteristics are privileged and may only be changed by the Server
 Manager.

 Port parameters that can be set and displayed include speed, charac-
 ter size, group codes, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, mo-
 dem, and password protection.

 Port Access

 A port on a DECserver 200 may be set up in different ways depending
 on the device attached to the port and its intended use. DECserver 200
 supports EIA-RS-232-C and DECconnect asynchronous devices operating
 at speeds up to 19.2K bps.

                                  9

 

 Port access is the characteristic that determines how a port may ac-
 cess or be accessed by interactive users and service nodes.

 o  Access Local-Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the
    device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to
    CONNECT to LAT services. This type of access is also used for dial-
    in modems.

 o  Access Remote-Designed for applications-driven devices such as asyn-
    chronous printers which are allocated by a service node process.
    This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by mul-
    tiple service nodes. This type of access is also used for connec-
    tions to dial-out modems, and non-LAT host systems.

 o  Access Dynamic-Designed for devices such as personal computers or
    printers with keyboards which require both Local and Remote access.

 o  Access None-Designed to allow the Server Manager to disable the use
    of a port.

 With printer support capabilities, the setup procedure of remote print-
 ers needs to be done once and is automatically reconfigured on sys-
 tem startup. The particular server port must be configured for remote
 access and set up to match the characteristics of the printer. The sys-
 tem startup command file must be modified to call the two command files
 provided with the service node software. Finally, the command files
 themselves must be customized to reflect the environment of their node.
 The server can optionally queue remote connects if these connects can-
 not be satisfied immediately. This queue management can be enabled for
 the server by the Server Manager. Note that this is a connection queue
 only.

 Terminal Operation

 The DECserver 200 software supports the simultaneous operation of up
 to eight asynchronous devices at speeds from 75 bps to 19.2K bps. The
 software also supports:

 o  Full modem control support (DECserver 200/MC only)

 o  Data leads only support

                                 10

 

 o  XON/XOFF flow control

 o  CTS/RTS and DSR/DTR flow control (DECserver 200/MC only)

 o  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

 o  Modem fallback features (DECserver 200/MC only)

 o  Block Mode transfers

 o  Automatic line speed detection

 o  Digital personal computer file transfer

 o  Data transparency mode

 o  Ability to pass break character and error notification

 o  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP

 Server Management

 Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server op-
 eration. The Server Manager in privileged mode can set up server iden-
 tification information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the
 operating characteristics of the server. The Server Manager can also
 assign service names to groups of one or more ports that are connected
 to non-LAT hosts or modems. Troubleshooting facilities include diag-
 nostic tests, a remote console feature, and online statistics.

 A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by loop-
 ing messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware in-
 terface at the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can ex-
 ecute a command to transmit test data to their terminal, or the server
 manager can send test data to any terminal.

 The capability also exists for the Server Manager to test a service
 connection by sending data from the initiating port to the service node
 and back again. The data is then compared and any discrepancies re-
 ported. At the service node, the data can be looped back by the LAT
 protocol, or internally or externally at the service port. This fea-
 ture is supported only by DECserver 200 service nodes; OpenVMS ser-
 vice nodes do not support this service loopback capability.

                                 11

 

 The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters including
 Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol statistics, and port er-
 ror statistics. These data can be displayed and zeroed by the Server
 Manager. Server parameters that can be modified and displayed include
 the server identification, circuit timer, session limits, and login
 limits.

 Remote Server Management

 The DECserver 200 implements the console carrier feature, which en-
 ables access to the DECserver 200 local mode from a Phase IV DECnet
 host on the same LAN. With the exception of remote console port con-
 figuration, the entire local mode user interface is accessible to the
 remote console carrier user. This includes the privileged commands,
 if the user knows the server's privileged password. This capability
 allows centralized server management and remote server diagnosis.

 Communications

 DECserver 200 software is designed to run exclusively on DECserver 200
 hardware that includes an Ethernet interface for connection to an Eth-
 ernet transceiver cable.

 The DECserver 200/MC has eight EIA RS-232-C/CCITT V.24 asynchronous
 line interfaces for connecting terminals to the unit.

 The DECserver 200/DL has a single 36-pin DECconnect connector for eight
 ports.

 On the DECserver 200/MC, each port on the server can be set up by the
 Server Manager to operate using full-duplex modem control. The DEC-
 server 200/MC is compatible with Digital's family of modems and with
 Bell 100 and 200 series modems and their equivalents. A BREAK feature
 is available and can be set on a per-port basis. This allows the DEC-
 server 200/MC to force a break condition on connections to host in-
 terfaces. BREAK can also be passed through from a terminal connected
 on the server to the non-LAT host connected on the server.

 DECserver 200 Operation

                                 12

 

 The DECserver 200 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary mainte-
 nance operation protocols for downline loading DECserver 200 software
 from a Phase IV DECnet load host over the Ethernet into server mem-
 ory. All self-test diagnostics are in DECserver ROM, so downline load-
 ing is not a precondition for DECserver self-test. In the event of a
 bugcheck caused by a fatal error, the unit will normally attempt to
 upline dump server memory to a DECnet Phase IV host. Following this,
 the unit will automatically initialize itself and invoke a downline
 load.

 DECserver 200 Configuration and Performance

 The process of configuring the DECserver 200 is based primarily on trade-
 offs of cost and performance within the realm of satisfying user ap-
 plication requirements. Network applications will range from low-speed,
 low-cost situations (e.g., connecting remote terminals through low-
 speed modems) to those of relatively high performance (e.g., connect-
 ing high-speed local terminals to local hosts within a local area net-
 work or connecting to non-LAT systems). The performance of a given server
 is a function of the expected network traffic, the load on hosts to
 which terminals are connected, and resultant processing pursuant to
 the dedicated function of the unit. Thus, performance depends on sev-
 eral factors:

 o  Number of terminals

 o  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

 o  Number of active connections to non-LAT hosts

 o  Terminal speeds

 o  Terminal user applications

 o  Number and size of host buffers

 o  Terminal workload

 The DECserver can sustain an aggregate character throughput of over
 11520 characters per second. This is equivalent to running four ports
 at 19200 bps, and four at 9600 bps.

                                 13

 

 In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a Digi-
 tal software specialist should perform a level of application anal-
 ysis that addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data through-
 put cannot be calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line
 speed, since many factors already discussed in this section may re-
 duce the actual throughput.

 Restrictions on DECserver 200 Usage

 While terminal connections using the DECserver 200 have been designed
 to simulate direct terminal connections as much as possible, a few dif-
 ferences necessarily exist because of the nature of the product. Un-
 der most circumstances, these differences are not noticed by termi-
 nal users or service node application programs. However, applications
 which are directly dependent on the following functions may not op-
 erate as with a direct connection:

 o  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed,
    character size, and parity by manipulating system data structures

 o  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typ-
    ically less than 200 ms) to operate

 o  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the ser-
    vice node

 o  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device
    names

 Other DECserver 200 Systems

 Refer to the following Software Product Descriptions for information
 on other supported DECserver 200 systems:

 o  DECserver 200 for RSX-11M-PLUS and Micro/RSX (SPD 15.72.xx)

 o  DECserver 200 for ULTRIX (SPD 27.54.xx)



                                 14

 

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors Supported

 Alpha AXP:  DEC 2000 Model 300 AXP Workstation
             DEC 2000 Model 300 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 300 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 300 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 600 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 600 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 800 AXP Workstation

             DEC 4000 Model 610 AXP System

             DEC 7000 Model 610 AXP System

             DEC 10000 Model 610 AXP System

 VAX:      VAXft Model 110,
           VAXft Model 310,
           VAXft Model 410,
           VAXft Model 610,
           VAXft Model 612

           VAX 4000 Model 100,
           VAX 4000 Model 200,
           VAX 4000 Model 300,
           VAX 4000 Model 400,
           VAX 4000 Model 500,
           VAX 4000 Model 600

           VAX 6000 Model 200 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 300 Series,



                                 15

 


           VAX 6000 Model 400 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 500 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 600 Series

           VAX 7000 Model 600 Series

           VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300,
           VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX 8530,
           VAX 8550, VAX 8600, VAX 8650,
           VAX 8700, VAX 8800, VAX 8810,
           VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

           VAX 9000 Model 110,
           VAX 9000 Model 210,
           VAX 9000 Model 300 Series,
           VAX 9000 Model 400 Series

           VAX 10000 Model 600 Series

           VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750,
           VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785

 MicroVAX: MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 10/10E,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 20/20E,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 30,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 40,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 80,
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 90,
           MicroVAX 3300, MicroVAX 3400,
           MicroVAX 3500, MicroVAX 3600,
           MicroVAX 3800, MicroVAX 3900







                                 16

 


 VAXstation:VAXstation II, VAXstation 2000,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 30,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 38,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 40,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 48,
           VAXstation 3100 Model 76,
           VAXstation 3200, VAXstation 3500,
           VAXstation 3520, VAXstation 3540

           VAXstation 4000 Model 60,
           VAXstation 4000 Model 90,
           VAXstation 4000 VLC

 VAXserver: VAXserver 3100 Model 10/10E,
           VAXserver 3100 Model 20/20E,
           VAXserver 3300, VAXserver 3400, VAXserver 3500,
           VAXserver 3600, VAXserver 3602, VAXserver 3800,
           VAXserver 3900

           VAXserver 4000 Model 200,
           VAXserver 4000 Model 300,
           VAXserver 4000 Model 500

           VAXserver 6000 Model 210,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 220,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 310,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 320,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 410,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 420,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 510,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 520,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 610,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 620,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 630

 Processors Not Supported

 MicroVAX I, VAXstation I, VAX-11/725, VAX-11/782, VAXstation 8000

                                 17

 

 Processor Restrictions

 A TK50 Tape Drive is required for standalone MicroVAX 2000 and VAXs-
 tation 2000 systems.

 The DECserver 200 software runs on any of the following packaged hard-
 ware options:

 o  DSRVB-**

 ** Denotes product variant models. For additional information, refer
    to the appropriate price book.

 Use the following SHIELDED cables with each of the physical lines de-
 pending on the connection required beyond the cable concentrator:

 BC22D     Null modem cable for local terminal or printer connec-
           tions.

 BC22E     Full modem straight through cable for modem connections.

 BC22F     Full modem straight through cable for modem connections.

 BC22R     Recommended null modem cable for host systems and other
           devices, including those that use CTS/RTS flow control.

 BC17D     Null modem cable for host systems and other devices that
           do not use CTS/RTS flow control.

 OPTIONAL HARDWARE

 Terminals Supported

 The DECserver 200 software supports the following Digital terminal de-
 vices that have keyboards:

 o  LA12, LA34, LA35, LA36, LA38

 o  All VTxxx terminals

 Supported terminal parameters are:

 o  Character size: 7 or 8 bits per character

                                 18

 

 o  Parity: Even, Odd, or None

 The automatic line speed detection (Autobaud) feature is supported for
 either 7-bit characters with even parity or 8-bit characters with no
 parity.

 The DECserver 200 software also supports Digital Asian terminal de-
 vice variants when accessed from OpenVMS/Hanzi systems. Please refer
 to the appropriate OpenVMS/Hanzi Software Product Description for a
 complete listing of supported devices.

 The DECserver 200 software also supports Digital Asian terminal de-
 vice variants when accessed from OpenVMS/Japanese systems. Please re-
 fer to the appropriate OpenVMS/Japanese Software Product Description
 for a complete listing of supported devices.

 The DECserver 200 software also supports the following Digital Per-
 sonal Computers (PCs) in both terminal emulation mode and file trans-
 fer mode:

 o  Professional 325, 350, 380

 o  Rainbow 100A, 100B, 100+, 190

 o  DECmate II

 o  DECmate III

 o  VAXmate

 o  DECstation

 Note: This product is NOT WARRANTED to support non-Digital terminal de-
 vices or personal computers. However, terminals supporting VT100- or
 VT200-like characteristics and personal computers supporting IBM[R]
 PC, IBM PC/XT and IBM PC/AT[R] characteristics may operate with this
 product.

 Printers Supported

                                 19

 

 The DECserver 200 software supports the following Digital asynchronous
 printers when accessed from OpenVMS systems:

 o  All LJ, LA, LQP, LXY, LN0, LG, and DTC printing devices

 The DECserver 200 software also supports Digital Asian printer device
 variants when accessed from OpenVMS/Hanzi systems. Please refer to the
 appropriate OpenVMS/Hanzi Software Product Description for a complete
 listing of supported devices.

 The DECserver 200 software also supports Digital Asian printer device
 variants when accessed from OpenVMS/Japanese systems. Please refer to
 the appropriate OpenVMS/Japanese Software Product Description for a
 complete listing of supported devices.

 Modems Supported

 For DECserver 200/MC:

 o  DF03, DF112, DF124, DF224, DF242, DFM X.29 pad, and DECmodem V32
    full-duplex asynchronous modems for either dial-in or dial-out use.
    Also supported are private or leased line modem applications, how-
    ever, connections to data switches are NOT WARRANTED but may op-
    erate with this product.

 Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size= 1):

 Disk space required for    900 blocks
 installation:

                            (435.2K bytes)

 Disk space required for    764 blocks
 use (permanent):

                            (391.7K bytes)

 These counts refer to the disk space required on the downline load host
 system disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depend-
 ing on the user's system environment, configuration, and software op-
 tions.

                                 20

 

 CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

 This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
 and licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions. The HARD-
 WARE REQUIREMENTS section of this Software Product Description detail
 any special hardware required by this product.

 *  V5.x - V6.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the
    VAXcluster Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI,
    Ethernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  OpenVMS AXP Operating System V1.5

 o  DECnet for OpenVMS AXP V1.5
    or

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System V4.7 - V6.0

 o  DECnet-VAX V4.7 - V6.0

 OpenVMS Tailoring

 For OpenVMS V5.x -V6.x systems, the following OpenVMS classes are re-
 quired for full functionality of this layered product:

 o  OpenVMS Required Saveset

 o  Network Support

 o  Utilities

 For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 o  Terminal Server Manager V2.0

                                 21

 

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.

 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 TK50 Streaming Tape, 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-VCBA*-**
 Software Media: QA-VCBA*-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-VCBAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VCBA*-**
 LAT Networks Concept Guide: AA-LD84B-TK

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
 about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
 ital office.

 The DECserver 200 software license applies to the DECserver 200 on which
 the server software runs, not to service host node CPUs in the net-
 work.

 This product does not provide support for the OpenVMS License Manage-
 ment Facility. A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not required for
 installation or use of this version of the product.






                                 22

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
 local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

 © 1994 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.

 [R] IBM and AT are registered trademarks of International Business
    Machines Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DECconnect, DECmate, DECnet, DEC-
    server, DECstation, LA, LAT, LXY, Micro/RSX, MicroVAX, OpenVMS,
    RSX-11M-PLUS, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXft, VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXs-
    tation, VMS, and VT100 are trademarks of Digital Equipment
    Corporation.
















                                 23
