 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECtp Desktop for ACMS, Version 1.1A    SPD 34.81.02

 DESCRIPTION

 DECtp Desktop for ACMS (Desktop ACMS) is a layered software product
 that allows application programs running in DOS, Macintosh(R), SCO[TM]
 UNIX(R), ULTRIX, and VMS Operating System environments to access VMS-
 based ACMS transaction processing applications through a desktop pro-
 gramming interface.

 Three Network Application Support components are included in the prod-
 uct:

 o  Desktop ACMS Portable Client for DOS, ULTRIX, SCO UNIX, and VMS

 o  Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh

 o  Desktop ACMS Server for VMS

 The desktop server software component resides on the host VMS system.
 The desktop client components reside on the desktop operating systems
 and provide an application programming interface for customer-written
 desktop client programs. Digital Equipment Corporation's PATHWORKS and
 VMS/ULTRIX Connection products or the Novell(R) NetWare(R) product sup-
 ply the software networking connection between the client and server
 systems.

 Product Family

 The DECtp product set implements commercial information systems us-
 ing Digital's Distributed Transaction Architecture (DECdta). This fam-
 ily of software products includes:

                               DIGITAL                September 1992

                                                         AE-PG9JC-TE

 

 o  ACMS - a software system that assists in the overall development,
    execution, and maintenance of industrial-strength commercial IS ap-
    plications. ACMS contains a Task Definition Language that defines
    application functionality. ACMS facilities, working in conjunction
    with other DECtp components, provide very high levels of database
    performance, application availability, and system security.

 o  Rdb/VMS - a full-function, distributable, SQL-based relational database
    management system that supports distributed transaction management
    (DECdtm). Rdb/VMS is supported by: the RdbAccess product set, which
    provides access to other Digital, IBM(R), and third-party databases
    using standard SQL statements; RdbExpert, an expert system database
    tuning tool; and DECtrace, a performance collection tool.

 o  DECforms - a set of development tools and a run-time environment
    for implementing powerful, user-friendly forms interfaces.

 o  CDD/Repostitory for VMS - an active, distributable repository sys-
    tem that provides a single logical repository for data definitions
    (metadata) and descriptions shared by programming languages, tools,
    and information management products.

 o  VAXset - a set of application development tools for the implemen-
    tation, testing, and maintenance of applications. Includes a language-
    sensitive editor and source code analyzer, performance and cover-
    age analyzer, code and module managers, and test manager.

 Features

 Desktop ACMS features are described according to the following areas:

 o  Development Environment

 o  Run-time System

 o  Network Support

 o  Management and Control

 o  Documentation

 o  Sample Application

                                  2

 

 Included in this product release are one or more UNSUPPORTED software
 components, which are marked clearly in this Software Product Descrip-
 tion. These software components are included because they may be use-
 ful for the user; however, they are NOT supported by Digital Customer
 Service Centers. Inclusion of these software components does not con-
 stitute a commitment from Digital that they will continue to be pro-
 vided in this product.

 Certain non-Digital (third-party) products can be used in conjunction
 with this product, and are mentioned in this SPD. Third-party prod-
 ucts such as those listed are not provided by this product, nor are
 they directly supported by this product.

 In general, use of any specific third-party products with Desktop ACMS
 is not directly supported by Digital. However, appropriate versions
 of certain third-party products have been tested and certified to be
 appropriate for use with this version of Desktop ACMS. These products,
 including Microsoft(R) Windows[TM] and Apple(R) Computer's HyperCard(R), are
 listed in the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section of the System Support Adden-
 dum (SSA 34.81.02-x).

 Development Environment

 Desktop ACMS provides a set of application programming interfaces, along
 with support libraries, that allow software programs to interact with
 ACMS applications as authenticated clients. These interfaces allow pro-
 grammers to write ACMS client programs without requiring extensive pro-
 gramming knowledge of network communications or the ACMS Task Defi-
 nition Language.

 Desktop ACMS Clients

 Desktop ACMS provides application programming interfaces for the DOS,
 ULTRIX, SCO UNIX, VMS, and Macintosh Operating Systems. These client
 services allow the desktop programmer to develop programs that:

 o  Sign into ACMS as an ACMS submitter

 o  Select ACMS tasks for execution under the control of the ACMS Ex-
    ecution Controller

                                  3

 

 o  Respond to callbacks from the ACMS system as part of ACMS task ex-
    change steps (forms processing)

    Note: Currently, the exchange step feature is not available with the
    Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh. The exchange step feature is UN-
    SUPPORTED for dynamic link libraries for DOS.

 o  Sign out of ACMS

 Supports Use of Native Windowing and Forms Packages

 Appropriate customer-provided display software can be used on each desk-
 top. For instance, on the Macintosh Operating System, HyperCard may
 be used; on DOS, Microsoft Windows may be used. Any such packages must
 include facilities to call and be called by source code modules which
 would include the Desktop ACMS Client services.

 Non-blocking Execution

 Desktop ACMS Clients support non-blocking programs. For event-driven
 processing environments such as Windows, programs may be structured
 to include an event-dispatching mechanism and a collection of proce-
 dures that are invoked by this dispatching mechanism as a result of
 an event. Ideally, these procedures are written to complete quickly
 so other events may be dispatched without delay.

 Desktop ACMS Client services allow an application to release control
 to the event-dispatching mechanism without waiting for a response from
 the Desktop ACMS Server. This is important where there are network traf-
 fic delays and/or a large amount of processing being performed by the
 ACMS application system.

 Note: Non-blocking execution is SUPPORTED for dynamic link libraries
 for DOS.

 Desktop ACMS Portable Client




                                  4

 

 The portable client interface provides support for two models of ap-
 plication development:

 o  Synchronous (blocking) command-line interface for in-line proce-
    dural implementation using, for example, Microsoft COBOL on DOS.

 o  Asynchronous (non-blocking) event-driven interface to accommodate
    such non-blocking tools as Motif(R) or Microsoft Windows.

 The services provided by the Desktop ACMS portable client for DOS, UL-
 TRIX, SCO UNIX, and VMS are:

 o  acmsdi_call_task - execute an ACMS task, passing task arguments spec-
    ified for read, write, or modify access

 o  acmsdi_complete_pp - complete an outstanding exchange step (non-
    blocking only)

 o  acmsdi_dispatch_message - check for Desktop Server messages (non-
    blocking only)

 o  acmsdi_sign_in - sign a user into ACMS

 o  acmsdi_sign_out - sign a user out of ACMS

 Presentation procedure routines are called automatically by the Desk-
 top ACMS Portable Client to display forms for the desktop user. These
 routines, which support blocking or non-blocking execution, are as fol-
 lows:

 o  acmsdi_disable - shut down forms sessions on the desktop in response
    to an acmsdi_sign_out service call

 o  acmsdi_enable - initialize data structures that are used by a num-
    ber of presentation procedures (invoked when a user calls an ACMS
    task that includes a form name that has not been previously ref-
    erenced)

 o  acmsdi_receive - execute forms operations in response to a RECEIVE
    in a called ACMS task

 o  acmsdi_request - execute forms operations in response to a REQUEST
    in a called ACMS task

                                  5

 

 o  acmsdi_send - execute forms operations in response to a SEND in a
    called ACMS task

 o  acmsdi_transceive - execute forms operations in response to a TRANSCEIVE
    in a called ACMS task

 DOS Memory Extensions, Models, and Modes

 Applications using Desktop ACMS can make use of PC conventional mem-
 ory, Expanded Memory Specification (EMS), Version 4.0, High Memory Area
 (HMA) loading, and Extended Memory Specification (XMS), Version 2.06,
 as supported by PATHWORKS for DOS, Version 4.0 and V4.1A. Refer to the
 PATHWORKS for DOS Software Product Description (SPD 55.07.xx) for more
 details.

 For applications using DOS but not using Microsoft Windows, all mem-
 ory models (Small, Medium, and Large) are supported.

 For applications using Microsoft Windows, Enhanced Windows Operating
 Mode is supported. All memory models are supported for applications
 using Desktop ACMS Dynamic Link Library. Large models are only sup-
 ported for applications that link the Desktop ACMS objects for win-
 dows.

 Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh

 This application programming interface supports the Data Access Man-
 ager (DAM) facility of the Macintosh Operating System. A special DAM
 device driver (DDEV) provides the following services for client ex-
 ecution:

 o  DBEnd - sign a user out of ACMS

 o  DBExec - execute an ACMS task

 o  DBGetConnInfo - returns information about the current state of a
    given session (there is no equivalent service available for DOS or
    ULTRIX clients)

 o  DBGetErr - retrieve detailed error information

                                  6

 

 o  DBGetSessNum - returns the session number for a given session iden-
    tifier

 o  DBGetItem - retrieve task completion status and returned workspaces

 o  DBInit - optionally select AppleTalk(R)-DECnet Gateway and sign a user
    into ACMS

 o  DBSend - prepares elements of a start-task message for transmis-
    sion to the ACMS system

 o  DBSendItem - prepares elements of a start-task message, including
    task arguments specified for read, write, or modify access, for trans-
    mission to the ACMS system

 o  DBState - check for task execution completion

 o  InitDBPack - load the Data Access Manager

 Currently, the Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh does not support call-
 ing ACMS tasks that include exchange steps.

 These services are synchronous; program control returns only when ser-
 vice execution is complete. Non-blocking task execution is supported
 because the DBExec service completes as soon as the task is submit-
 ted for execution to ACMS. The DBState service is used to poll for task
 completion.

 Asynchronous parameter block can not be used with these services.

 Run-time System

 Desktop Client Run-time Libraries

 Run-time libraries are provided for the client operating systems to
 support the execution of client programs that use the Desktop ACMS Clients.
 The Desktop ACMS Client for Microsoft Windows includes both static and
 dynamic link libraries. The Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh includes
 a run-time driver and Init file that allows the Data Access Manager
 component to execute on Macintosh Operating System, Version 6.0.7 and
 later systems.

 Desktop ACMS Server for VMS

                                  7

 

 The Desktop ACMS Server is an asynchronous, multi-threaded, run-time
 component residing on any VMS node, regardless of the location of ACMS
 applications being called by desktop clients. There is one Desktop Server
 on any VMS node. The Desktop ACMS Server is an ACMS agent that per-
 forms the following functions:

 o  Authenticates desktop clients (ACMS submitters)

 o  Calls tasks for users; this can include local and remote ACMS task
    selection

 o  Communicates with the desktop client program as part of ACMS task
    exchange step (desktop presentation procedure) execution

 o  Provides information to the ACMS system manager concerning Desk-
    top ACMS submitters
























                                  8

 

 Network Support

 The following network connectivity software is supported for desktop
 nodes connected to a Local Area Network (LAN) or a Wide Area Network
 (WAN).

 Desktop ACMS Client for DOS

 DECnet-DOS is supported. DECnet-DOS software is provided by PATHWORKS
 for DOS.

 Novell NetWare is supported for communications between DOS clients and
 Desktop ACMS servers on VMS. As prerequisite software for NetWare sup-
 port, the NetWare IPX stack must be installed on the VMS server sys-
 tem; this is available as embedded software in any of the following
 software products from Interconnections, Inc.[TM]:

 o  Terminal Emulation Software[TM] (TES[TM])

 o  Network Print Services[TM] (NPS[TM])

 o  DECnet/IPX Portal[TM]

 Specific information on required software versions can be found in the
 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS section of this product's Software Support Ad-
 dendum (SSA 34.81.02-x).

 Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh

 DECnet for Macintosh is supported. The DECnet Tool is executed on the
 Macintosh by specifying "DECnet Tool" on the DBInit service that ini-
 tiates a Data Access Manager session. DECnet for Macintosh and the DEC-
 net Tool are provided by PATHWORKS for Macintosh. Use of the DECnet
 Tool requires PATHWORKS for Macintosh, Version 1.1.

 AppleTalk is also supported through AppleTalk-DECnet Gateway. The AppleTalk-
 DECnet Tool is executed on the Macintosh by specifying "AppleTalk-DECnet
 Tool" on the DBInit service that initiates a Data Access Manager ses-
 sion. The AppleTalk-DECnet Tool is provided by PATHWORKS for Macin-
 tosh.

 Desktop Client for ULTRIX

                                  9

 

 DECnet and TCP/IP are supported.

 For TCP/IP network support, VMS/ULTRIX Connection must be installed
 on the VMS server node.

 Desktop Client for SCO UNIX

 DECnet and TCP/IP are supported.

 VMS/ULTRIX Connection must be installed on the VMS server node.

 Desktop Client for VMS

 DECnet-VAX is supported.

 Communication modules are provided for test purposes for TCP/IP and
 Novell NetWare but are UNSUPPORTED.

 Desktop ACMS Server for VMS

 DECnet-VAX is supported.

 For NetWare support, the Interconnection's NetWare IPX stack is re-
 quired.

 For TCP/IP support, VMS/ULTRIX Connection is required.

 For AppleTalk support, the AppleTalk/DECnet Gateway (VMS software) is
 utilized. This software is provided by PATHWORKS for Macintosh.

 Management and Control

 Support Features

 The following features are provided as part of the Desktop ACMS sys-
 tem:

 o  The Desktop ACMS Client services report errors from ACMS back to
    the desktop client program for local error handling.

 o  The Desktop ACMS Client services also (optionally) log error mes-
    sages to a local desktop device file (available on DOS, ULTRIX, SCO
    UNIX, and VMS).

                                 10

 

 o  The Desktop ACMS Server reports ACMS and desktop client errors to
    the ACMS Software Event Logger.

 o  System Managers can control desktop client access to ACMS and re-
    move desktop clients from the ACMS system, using standard ACMS util-
    ities.

 o  Desktop ACMS provides support, through DECtrace, for the display
    of server event information.

 Programming Services

 The following services are provided to assist in system management ac-
 tivities:

 o  cmsdi$get_submitter_info - return information regarding active Desk-
    top Server clients (available on VMS).

    A sample program that uses this service to display all current Desk-
    top ACMS submitters is provided. This sample program is an UNSUP-
    PORTED software component.

 o  acmsdi_check_version - optional customer-supplied routine that is
    called by the Desktop ACMS Clients to check a version string from
    the Desktop ACMS Server against the client program version (avail-
    able on DOS, ULTRIX, SCO UNIX, and VMS).

 o  acmsdi_get_version - optional customer-supplied routine that is called
    by the Desktop ACMS Server to return a version string to the desk-
    top program clients (available on VMS).

 Documentation

 Programming Guide

 This document describes how to develop and test client programs that
 use Desktop ACMS. It includes detailed information on Desktop ACMS com-
 ponents and functions, design and development guidelines, system man-
 agement, and interface reference information.

 Installation Guide

                                 11

 

 This document describes the VMS installation process, provides instruc-
 tions for copying and installing client software to desktop systems,
 and provides directions for running the product's Installation Ver-
 ification Procedure (IVP).

 Release Notes

 This document (available online as part of the media kit) contains in-
 formation specific to this Desktop ACMS release and information added
 after the production date for the other product documents.

 Training Guide and Training Cassettes

 This document and set of audiocassettes provides a self-paced instruc-
 tion course for Desktop ACMS programmers. The course covers all as-
 pects of the Desktop ACMS system and utilizes the online sample ap-
 plication to reinforce system concepts and build programming skills.

 Sample Application

 A complete sample application is provided, including desktop client
 programs and ACMS application modules. This application implements a
 small part of a car rental system, and is called "AVERTZ." The sam-
 ple application includes all necessary product executable images as
 well as source code modules. Inclusion of the source code allows the
 sample to be used as a template for customer-developed desktop client
 programs.

 The sample application includes the following components:

 o  DOS client using Microsoft COBOL and Microsoft C

 o  DOS client using Microsoft Windows and Microsoft C

 o  Portable client using Motif V1.1, for VMS, SCO UNIX, VAX ULTRIX,
    and MIPS ULTRIX systems

 o  Macintosh Operating System client using HyperCard and specialized
    HyperCard XFCNs, which are implemented in HyperTalk(R) and Macintosh
    Programmer's Workstation (MPW[TM]) C

                                 12

 

 o  Macintosh Operating System client using MPW C and Data Access Man-
    ager services

 o  Macintosh Operating System HyperCard application, which provides
    a learning tool for Desktop ACMS concepts

 o  VMS-based ACMS application modules using the ACMS Task Definition
    Language, DECforms forms, and procedure server modules implemented
    in VAX COBOL and VAX SQL

 The entire sample application is a set of UNSUPPORTED software com-
 ponents.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Desktop ACMS Client for DOS

 100-percent IBM-compatible Intel[TM] PC systems as specified in the
 System Support Addendum (SSA 34.81.02-x).

 Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh

 Macintosh systems as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 34.81.02-
 x).

 Desktop ACMS Client for ULTRIX

 VAX and RISC ULTRIX systems as specified in the System Support Adden-
 dum (SSA 34.81.02-x).

 Desktop ACMS Client for SCO UNIX

 Intel PC systems as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 34.81.02-
 x).

 Desktop ACMS Client for VMS and Desktop ACMS Server for VMS

 VAX, VAXft, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver systems as specified
 in the System Support Addendum (SSA 34.81.02-x).

                                 13

 

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 The following are the software requirements for a Desktop ACMS run-
 time environment.

 Desktop ACMS Server

 The following are general software requirements for the Desktop ACMS
 Server:

 o  VMS Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx).

 o  VAX ACMS, VAX ACMS Remote Application Access, or VAX ACMS Run-time.
    Refer to the VAX ACMS Software Product Description (SPD 25.50.xx)
    for information on other required VMS layered software products.

 o  Network Support:

    -  If using DECnet, DECnet-VAX (SPD 25.03.xx).

    -  If using TCP/IP, VMS/ULTRIX Connection (SPD 25.A4.xx)

    -  If using NetWare, an IPX stack must be installed on the Desk-
       top ACMS Server system; this is available as embedded software
       in any of the following software products from Interconnections,
       Inc.:

       o  Terminal Emulation Software (TES)

       o  Network Print Services (NPS)

       o  DECnet/IPX Portal

 o  Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh:

    -  PATHWORKS for Macintosh (SPD 31.53.xx)

 Desktop ACMS Client for DOS

 o  Operating System Support:

    -  COMPAQ(R) DOS

    -  DECstation DOS

    -  IBM DOS

                                 14

 

    -  Olivetti(R) DOS

    -  Tandy(R) DOS

    -  Toshiba(R) DOS

    -  Zenith(R) DOS

       The base systems previously listed are supported only when us-
       ing the operating system software supplied by the same vendor
       as the system unit itself.

 o  Network Support:

    -  If using DECnet, PATHWORKS for DOS (SPD 55.07.xx).

    -  If using NetWare, one of the following Novell NetWare products:
 
              NetWare 386
              Advanced NetWare
              NetWare
              NetWare for VMS

       Note: These products contain only client software.

 Desktop ACMS Client for Macintosh

 o  Macintosh Operating System

 o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh (SPD 31.53.xx).

 Desktop ACMS Client for ULTRIX

 o  Either the ULTRIX Operating System (SPD 26.40.xx) or ULTRIX Worksys-
    tem Software (SPD 28.22.xx)

 o  If using DECnet, DECnet-ULTRIX (SPD 26.83.xx)

 Desktop ACMS Client for SCO UNIX

 o  Either SCO UNIX System V[TM]/386 (SPD 32.52.xx)
    or
    Open Desktop (SPD 32.57.xx)

                                 15

 

 o  Network Support:

    -  If using TCP/IP with SCO UNIX, SCO TCP/IP (SPD 32.56.xx)

    -  If using DECnet, DECnet for SCO UNIX (SPD 34.21.xx)

 Desktop ACMS Client for VMS

 o  VMS Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx)

 o  DECnet-VAX (SPD 25.03.xx)

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-GZGA*-**
 Software Media and Documentation: QA-GZGAA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-GZGAA-GZ
 Self-Paced Training: QA-GZGAB-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-GZGA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited Use Ba-
 sis, plus Concurrent Use Basis. Each Concurrent Use license allows any
 one individual at a time to use the layered product.



                                 16

 

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 (R)  Apple, AppleTalk, HyperCard, HyperTalk, and Macintosh are reg-
    istered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

 (R)  COMPAQ is a registered trademark of COMPAQ Corporation.

 (R)  Dialog is a registered trademark of Micro Focus, Ltd.

 (R)  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
    chines Corporation.

 (R)  JAM is a registered trademark of JYACC.

 (R)  Microsoft, MS, Codeview, and Visual Basic are registered trade-
    marks of Microsoft Corporation.

 (R)  Motif, OSF, and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks of Open
    Software Foundation, Inc.

 (R)  Novell and NetWare are registered trademarks of Novell, Inc.

 (R)  Olivetti is a registered trademark of Ing. C. Olivetti.

 (R)  Symantec is a registered trademark of Symantec Corporation.

                                 17

 


 (R)  Tandy is a registered trademark of Tandy Corporation.

 (R)  Toshiba is a registered trademark of Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba.

 (R)  UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories,
    Inc.

 (R)  Vermont Views is a registered trademark of Vermont Creative
    Software.

 (R)  Zenith is a registered trademark of Zenith Electronics Corpora-
    tion.

 [TM]Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.

 [TM]Interconnections, Inc., Terminal Emulation Services, TES, Net-
    work Print Services, NPS, and DECnet/IPX Portal are trademarks
    of Interconnections, Inc.

 [TM]MPW is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

 [TM]Open Desktop and SCO are trademarks of Santa Cruz Operations,
    Inc.

 [TM]Open Interface is a trademark of Neuron Data, Inc.

 [TM]System V is a trademark of American Telephone and Telegraph
    Company.

 [TM]Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, CDD/Repository, CI, DEC, DECdtm, DEC-
    forms, DECnet, DECnet-DOS, DECstation, DECtp, DECtrace, DEPCA,
    DECwindows, DEPCA, Digital, MicroVAX, PATHWORKS, Rdb/VMS, TK,
    ULTRIX, VAX, VAXset, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation,
    VAX C, VAX COBOL, VAX SQL, and VMS are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.


                                 18
