DECdx/VMS, Version 1.2                                       SPD 26.36.05

DESCRIPTION

DECdx/VMS is a layered software product that resides on VMS ``host'' 
systems. DECdx enables DECmate II and III, both standalone and shared 
resource, to be linked to the host for ``TEAM'' computing, allowing better 
system utilization, document exchange, and information and data sharing. 

Users of DECmate based systems can use DECdx to transfer documents between 
the DECmate system and the VMS host mainframe over a serial line interface. 
The WPS-8 word processing document formats (DX DEC Standard 049) and print 
control characters are retained. During a DECdx session, the DECmate system 
operates as though it were another terminal on the host system. 

For transporting documents in WPS file format between the DECmate and VMS 
systems, DECdx employs the DIGITAL Standard Document Exchange (DX) error 
detecting and correcting transmission protocol. 

Features

oo   Compatibility - Documents are encoded in DX format. This is a DIGITAL 
    Standard document format, which allows WPS-8 documents to be exchanged 
    across any of DIGITAL's mainframes that support DECdx. Documents stored 
    in DECdx formats can be utilized with WPS-PLUS, DECpage, and the EDE 
    products.

oo   Shared access - With appropriate privileges, users can share WPS 
    documents.

oo   Transfer function - The user transfers documents between the DECmate 
    and the host.  Therefore, the DECmate can store and access larger size 
    and a greater volume of documents on the host system's mass storage 
    devices.

oo   Index - A directory of documents stored on the host VAX system in DECdx 
    format can be displayed on the DECmate terminal screen using the DECdx 
    Index function.  

oo   Add function - The Add function lets users add DECmate documents on the 
    host to their DECdx document index.

oo   Conversion - DECdx includes three conversion functions:

    Old-to-New makes DX/VMS documents compatible with DECdx.

    Document-to-file allows the user to convert DECdx documents (stored on 
    the VAX host in DX format) into host files stored in ASCII.  Some 
    document format and print features will be lost in the translation, 
    such as underlining, bolding, superscripts, subscripts, and word wrap 
    returns. Rulers are lost, although formatting is retained as much as 
    possible.

    File-to-document conversion changes ASCII files into DX format.  These 
    converted files can be sent to the DECmate system and edited with the 
    sophisticated WPS editor. Users may preset the desired ruler setting 
    for this operation.

    In all conversion functions, the resulting documents and or files are 
    structured to appear as close to the ``original'' as possible.

oo   Printing - Users have the choice of using the DECdx Print function to 
    utilize the host's high speed system printer, or other attached DIGITAL 
    printers. The user can also transfer text files from the host system 
    and print them on the Letter Quality Printer attached to their DECmate.

oo   Display of a document's text or READ function on the host is supported. 
    It does not support viewing of word processing highlights, although 
    these are retained and appear when the document is returned to the 
    DECmate. Document deletion (Delete) is also supported.

oo   Documentation - DECdx/VMS includes extensive on-line user assistance, a 
    User's Manual, a Getting Started Card, complete installation 
    instructions, and an update manual describing new functionality.   

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 26.36.05-x.) 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

oo   VMS or MicroVMS Operating System

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum for the availability and required 
    versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.36.05-x)


ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-708A-**
Software Media: QA-708A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-708AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-708A*-**
 
*   Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSING MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity plus 
User/Activity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the VMS 
Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.
   
SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

May
AE-AD38F-TE
