
PRODUCT NAME:  VAX LN03 Image Support Software,         SPD 31.52.00
               Version 1.0

DESCRIPTION

The VAX LN03 Image Support Software consists of a VMS device driver for the 
LN03 Image printer and associated MD300 scanner.  The LN03 Image Support 
Software also includes a PostScriptROF
RO PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.
F library used exclusively by VAX 
ScriptPrinter Software.

Calls are made to the PostScript library from VAX Scriptprinter Software to 
convert PostScript data into Bit-Mapped data capable of being printed by the 
LN03 Image printer.

The LN03 Image subsystem consists of a Q-bus controller board and the LN03 
Image printer.

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this product. DIGITAL 
recommends that all other customers purchase DIGITAL's Installation Services.  
These services provide for installation of the software product by an 
experienced DIGITAL Software Specialist.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 

VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 
31.52.00-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System

VAX ScriptPrinter Software

* Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.52.00-x) for availability 
  and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software License:  QL-VZRA*-**
Software Media:  QA-VZRA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VZRAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VZRA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.                     

SOFTWARE LICENSING

The license for this software product is only available with the 
purchase of the hardware system.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

Adobe Systems Incorporated, License Terms and Agreement

1.  Licensor grants to Licensee a nonexclusive sublicense, subject to 
    Paragraph 8 below and the other provisions hereof (a) to use a single 
    copy of the IMPP ("Software") solely for Licensee's own internal 
    business purposes on a DEC Computer; (b) to use the digitally-encoded 
    machine-readable outline and bitmap programs ("Font Programs") 
    provided by Licensor in a special encrypted format ("Coded Font 
    Programs") and identified herewith to reproduce and disply designs, 
    styles, weights, and versions of letters, numerals, characters and 
    symbols ("Typefaces" and "Screen Typefaces") solely for Licensee's 
    own customary business or personal purposes on the screen of the DEC 
    computer; and (c) to use the trademarks used by Licensor to identify 
    the Coded Font Programs and Typefaces reproduced therefrom 
    ("Trademarks"). Licensee may assign its rights under this Agreement 
    to a licensee of all of Licensee's right, title and interest to such 
    Software and Coded Font Programs provided the licensee agrees to be 
    bound by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
   
2.  Licensee acknowledges that the Software, Coded Font Programs, 
    Typefaces and Trademarks are proprietary to Licensor and its 
    suppliers. Licensee agrees to hold the Software and Coded Font 
    Programs in confidence, disclosing the Software and Coded Font 
    Programs only to authorized employees having a need to use the 
    Software and Coded Font Programs as permitted by this Agreement and 
    to take all reasonable precautions to prevent disclosure to other 
    parties.

3.  Licensee will not make or have made, or permit to be made, any copies 
    of the Software or Coded Font Programs or portions thereof, except as 
    permitted under the terms of its single-use license on a DEC Computer 
    hereunder. Licensee agrees that any such copies shall contain the 
    same proprietary notices which appear on or in the Software of the 
    Coded Font Programs.

4.  Except as stated above, this Agreement does not grant Licensee any 
    rights to patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade names, trademarks 
    (whether registered or unregistered), or any other rights, 
    franchises, or licenses in respect of the Software, Coded Font 
    Programs, Typefaces, or Trademarks. Licensee will not adapt or use 
    any trademark or trade name which is likely to be similar to or 
    confusing with that of Licensor or any of its suppliers or take any 
    other action which impairs or reduces the trademark rights of 
    Licensor or its suppliers. Any use of the Trademarks must identify 
    the applicable "Trademark Owner". At the reasonable request of 
    Licensor, Licensee must supply samples of any Typeface identified by 
    a Trademark.

5.  Licensee agrees that it will not attempt to alter, disassemble, 
    decrypt or reverse compile the Software or Coded Font Programs.

6.  Licensee acknowledges that the laws and regulations of the United 
    States restrict the export and re-export of commodities and technical 
    data of United States origin, including the Software or Coded Font 
    Programs. Licensee agrees that it will not export or re-export the 
    Software or Coded Font Programs in any form without the appropriate 
    United States and foreign government licenses. Licensee agrees that 
    its obligations pursuant to this section shall survive and continue 
    after any termin-ation or expiration of rights under this Agreement.

7.  The Software licensed hereunder is restricted to use on a DEC 
    Computer to generate bitmap images to output devices with (i) 
    resolutions up to 400 dpi and speeds of 10 ppm or less in the case of 
    monochrome devices or (ii) resolutions up to 200 dpi and speeds of 10 
    ppm or less in the case of color devices. Licensee agrees not to make 
    use of the Software, directly or indirectly, to print bitmap images 
    with print resolutions of over 400 dots/per/inch, or to generate 
    Fonts or Type-faces for use other than with the DEC Computer. Any 
    failure of Licensee to comply with this provision is a material 
    breach of this End User Agreement.

8.  Licensee agrees that Adobe Systems Incorporated is a third party 
    beneficiary of this End User Agreement.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a User/Activity basis.  

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, 
contact hyour local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD.

    VAX, VMS, VAXstation, LN03 and ScriptPrinter are trademarks of 
    Digital Equipment Corporation. 
