 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECmcc Director, Version 1.2            SPD 32.46.02

 INTRODUCTION

 The DECmcc Director is an entry-level DECmcc Family Product manage-
 ment system for multi-vendor, multi-protocol networks. It provides ac-
 cess to, and management functions for, Digital Equipment Corporation's
 ADVANTAGE-NETWORK (DECnet Phase IV, DECnet/OSI, and TCP/IP) and open
 network environments. In addition, the Director is an extensible frame-
 work on which user-developed management modules, third-party products,
 or other DECmcc products can be added.

 The DECmcc Director includes an integrated command set, object-oriented
 Management Information Repository (MIR), and graphic and command-line
 user interfaces. It enables network operators/managers to perform ba-
 sic monitoring and control tasks on network or system managed objects
 that support DECnet Phase IV NICE, DECnet/OSI CMIP, SNMP, or IEEE 802.2
 / Ethernet/MOP management protocols.

 The DECmcc Director software is one of a family of DECmcc products based
 on Digital's Enterprise Management Architecture (EMA). For an overview
 of EMA and DECmcc, refer to the DECmcc Product Family Overview Soft-
 ware Product Description (SPD 37.19.xx).

 DESCRIPTION

 The DECmcc Director software provides an entry-level set of monitor
 and control functions for multi-vendor, multi-protocol LAN (Local Area
 Network), Extended LAN, and WAN (Wide Area Network) networks. Avail-
 able on the VMS[*] and ULTRIX Operating Systems, the DECmcc Director
 provides generic management functions, including:
 ____________________

 The   terms VMS and OpenVMS refer to the Open VMS operating system.

                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-PC7JC-TE

 

 o  Graphic and Command Line User Interfaces that provide consistent
    views and interactions with the management system regardless of the
    objects managed or the protocols used to manage them.

 o  Generic Notification and Alarm functions that enable users to de-
    fine alarm rules and set up notification and automated procedures
    to locate existing and potential network problems or events.

 o  Generic Historical Data Recording and Data Export functions that
    allow users to define, collect, timestamp, and re-use historical
    network data and export DECmcc management information to an exter-
    nal relational data base.

 Consistent with the EMA Director Model, of which it is an implemen-
 tation, the DECmcc BMS consists of a set of layered Management Mod-
 ules supported by an open Applications Program Interface (API), an Ex-
 ecutive or operating system-like set of module support functions, and
 an object-oriented Management Information Repository providing data
 structure and storage functions.

 o  Management Modules provide services to users and one another. There
    are three types of Management Modules:

    -  Access Modules (AMs) provide remote protocol support for, and
       management information about, different classes of managed ob-
       jects.

    -  Function Modules (FMs) provide services such as object regis-
       tration, statistics generation, fault detection, and notifica-
       tion to users and to one another.

    -  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user interface
       for the direct manipulation of managed objects (through AMs) and
       user access to management operations (through FMs).

 o  The Executive provides system services that enable Management Mod-
    ules to be installed and used independently or in combination.

 o  The Applications Programming Interface (API) defines how Manage-
    ment Modules invoke each other's services. The DECmcc API is open
    and documented to support Digital, third-party, or user-developed
    modules.

                                  2

 

 o  The Management Information Repository (MIR) provides a means to struc-
    ture and store management information.

 DECmcc Director Access Modules (AMs)

 DECmcc Director AMs provide access to network and system objects in
 Digital's ADVANTAGE-NETWORK and other mixed, multi-vendor network en-
 vironments that use the following management protocols: SNMP, DECnet
 /OSI CMIP, DECnet NICE, and IEEE 802.2/Ethernet/MOP.

 o  The DECnet Phase IV AM enables users to manage DECnet Phase IV ob-
    jects such as nodes, circuits, lines, and adjacencies. With the DEC-
    net Phase IV AM, users can modify DECnet parameters, set charac-
    teristics, collect DECnet events, and poll for management data such
    as counters or status.

 o  The DECnet/OSI CMIP AM provides management access to DECnet devices
    that use Digital's implementation of the standard Common Manage-
    ment Information Protocol (CMIP). This version of CMIP, implemented
    on DECnet/OSI devices, provides management operations and data gath-
    ering functions for DECnet/OSI networks including the ability to
    sink DECnet events to the DECmcc system.

 o  The TCP/IP SNMP AM includes support for the following Internet Ad-
    visory Board (IAB) Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) RFCs:
    1155, 1156, 1157, 1212, and 1213. This includes full MIB II sup-
    port in addition to support for on-site enrollment of vendor-specific
    Enterprise MIBs, including:

    o  A MIB translation utility that automatically checks the syntax
       of the ASN.1 Concise MIB definition (providing error messages
       to help identify syntax problems) and translates the data for
       loading the information into the DECmcc Director's Management
       Information Repository (MIR).

    o  An event-logging sink for collecting SNMP generic traps (unso-
       licited TCP/IP event messages) including: coldStart, warmStart,
       linkDown, linkUp, egpNeighborLoss, authentificationFailure, and
       enterpriseSpecific.

                                  3

 

    o  Ability to perform GET and SET operations on devices supported
       by SNMP agents.

    o  ICMP ECHO_REQUEST (ping) support for verifying the reachabil-
       ity of an SNMP managed object at the IP level.
    Note: DEC TCP/IP Services for VMS is required for using the TCP
    /IP SNMP AM on VMS systems.

 o  The IEEE 802.3/Ethernet Station AM enables users to manage, at the
    network interface level, any 802.3/Ethernet LAN device that sup-
    ports MOP REQID, MOP SYSID, MOP Counters, Ethernet V2 Loopback, IEEE
    802.2 XID, or IEEE 802.2 Test.

 o  Circuit AM works as a client of management protocol modules to pro-
    vide management of circuits connecting endpoints compliant with the
    Network Management Forum (NMF) definitions. Compliant endpoints in-
    clude DECnet Phase IV and DECnet OSI nodes, and TCP/IP hosts. Ty-
    ing together circuit, line, link, and other end-point data, this
    AM can gather status data and store reference information about sim-
    ple, point-to-point circuits or complex multi-channel circuits.

 DECmcc Director Function Modules (FMs)

 The DECmcc Director provides FMs for registering and organizing man-
 aged objects regardless of the management protocol used or object type.
 This includes support for devices accessible through the Director AMs,
 other Digital-developed AMs, or AMs developed and supported by third
 parties and users.

 o  The Registration FM is a generic FM that enables users to enter and
    manage data identifying each managed object in a network environ-
    ment. Such information includes object instance data such as net-
    work names and addresses, and reference information such as device
    location, software revision levels, and contact names.

    With the Registration FM, users have the option of selecting a lo-
    cal system-level repository or setting up a network-wide, globally-
    available naming service using Digital's Distributed Name Service
    (DECdns). With DECdns, users and applications can assign names to
    resources (such as nodes, bridges, files, domain names, etc.) and
    then use those resources without having to keep track of physical

                                  4

 

    location or network address. The DECdns option also enables mul-
    tiple DECmcc systems to share the same view of managed objects.

 o  The Domain FM is a generic FM that enables users to assign managed
    objects into groups called domains. Domains are subsets of the man-
    aged object configuration that provide user-defined groups, which
    can be based on equipment type (all DECnet nodes, all TCP/IP hosts,
    all LAN Bridges, etc.), geography (all objects within a LAN, build-
    ing, campus, or subnet), personnel levels, or any other user-defined
    object group. Domains can contain or refer to other domains and can
    be hierarchical or overlapping. Individual managed objects can be
    contained within multiple domains.

 DECmcc Director Presentation Modules (PMs)

 The DECmcc Director includes two PMs. The DECwindows/Iconic Map PM pro-
 vides a graphic interface with pull-down command and monitor windows
 that consistently present all managed objects and operations. Consis-
 tent access is also provided by the Forms and Command Line PM.

 The Iconic Map PM with a DECwindows Interface uses the common features
 of any DECwindows application. Capabilities specific to this presen-
 tation style include:

 o  Map windows that display the contents of a managed environment (for
    example, a domain) using icons to represent managed objects and their
    subordinate or child objects. Users can select icons representing
    managed objects and initiate management operations from a map win-
    dow. Several map windows can be displayed at one time, each dis-
    playing different views of domains of a managed environment.

 o  A Navigation box and ViewPort window that enable users to view an
    entire network configuration map at one time. With the ViewPort fea-
    ture, users can navigate to, and select a particular portion of,
    the total network environment to display in detail in the map win-
    dow.

 o  Management windows that enable users to select, perform, and view
    the results of management operations. Like map windows, several dif-
    ferent management windows can be displayed simultaneously.

                                  5

 

 o  Graph windows that enable users to select and display real-time or
    historical numeric attributes, such as counters, graphs, or his-
    tograms.

 o  A Toolbox window and other customization features that provide users
    with the ability to create, modify, or delete map icons, connect-
    ing lines, text, or other items in a map window. Users can create
    map icons, add geographic maps or other backdrops, and add customized
    icons to the Toolbox for retrieval and re-use.

 Forms and Command Line PM provides character cell access to DECmcc Di-
 rector function and access capabilities. The interface supports two
 modes, Command Line Mode and Forms Mode.

 Note: The Forms mode is available on VMS only.

 The Command Line mode enables users to create names or mnemonics and
 use special symbols to reduce data entry and eliminate input errors.
 It supports command line recall and editing, abbreviation, online Help,
 symbol substitution, use of control key sequences, line continuation,
 and the typeahead function.

 Command Line mode also supports the use of scripts to automate fre-
 quently used DECmcc command sequences. Users can set up initializa-
 tion files through the Command Line mode for establishing defaults and
 executing startup directives. In addition, users can log any command
 to an output file for storage and review.

 The Forms mode provides the basic features of the Command Line mode
 in addition to a scroll feature that enables users to save up to 500
 lines of output from management directives, scroll through the saved
 output, and create new directives based on previous input. The Forms
 mode also allows printing and logging of entries made to the output
 region.

 Both the Forms mode and the Command Line mode, as well as the Iconic
 Map interface, provide online, context-sensitive Help.

 Director Extensibility

                                  6

 

 In addition to providing basic monitoring and control functions as stan-
 dalone product, the DECmcc Director is an extensible management plat-
 form to which other DECmcc software modules, optional packages, third-
 party, or user-developed Management Modules can be added. Optional pack-
 ages include generic functional capabilities such as Alarming and No-
 tification and object-specific functions and access modules that sup-
 port device-specific management protocols.

 The DECmcc Director management access and functions are also the ba-
 sis for other DECmcc Director Family products such as the DECmcc Ba-
 sic Management System (BMS) and the DECmcc Enterprise Management Sta-
 tion (EMS). Refer to the list of optional software below, and the DECmcc
 Director Product Family Overview SPD (SPD 37.19.xx), and the specific
 SPD for the appropriate DECmcc Director Family product.

 Third parties and users can develop software modules for DECmcc Fam-
 ily Products to provide access to, and management functions for, any
 manageable object. Software and documentation for the development of
 integrated DECmcc modules are available as part of the DECmcc Devel-
 oper's Toolkit. For more information about the DECmcc Developer's Toolkit,
 refer to SPD 32.49.xx.

 DECmcc BMS includes several utilities that enable on-site enrollment
 of Management Modules. Documentation required for third-party module
 enrollment must be supplied by the module developer.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations with an Ethernet controller
 as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.46.02-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For VMS:

 o  For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows
    Interface): VMS Operating System



                                  7

 

 o  For Workstations Running DECwindows:
    VMS Operating System
    (and necessary components of DECwindows)

 For ULTRIX:

 o  For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows
    Interface): ULTRIX Operating System

 o  For Workstations (both with and without
    DECwindows): ULTRIX Worksystem Software

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.46.02-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 For VMS:

 o  DECnet-VAX - If the Digital Distributed Name Service (DECdns) is
    used or if DECnet Phase IV or DECnet/OSI nodes are to be managed

 o  A Digital Distributed Name Service (DECdns) Server must be installed
    somewhere on the network to implement a global naming repository
    in place of the DECmcc local system naming repository

 o  DEC TCP/IP Run-Time for VMS to support SNMP access

 o  DECmcc Notification Package

 o  DECmcc Performance Statistics Package

 o  DECmcc Historical Data Services Package

 o  DECmcc Configuration Package

 o  DECmcc Fault Diagnostic Package

 o  DECmcc ELM (AM/FM) for VMS

 o  Terminal Server Access Module

                                  8

 

 For ULTRIX:

 o  DECnet-ULTRIX - If the Digital Distributed Name Service for ULTRIX
    (DECdns for ULTRIX) is used, or if DECnet Phase IV or DECnet/OSI
    nodes are to be managed. Note that the DNS Clerk for ULTRIX is avail-
    able only with DECnet/OSI.

 o  A Digital Distributed Name Service (DECdns) Server must be installed
    somewhere on the network to implement a global naming repository
    in place of the DECmcc local system naming repository

 o  DECmcc Notification Package

 o  DECmcc Performance Statistics Package

 o  DECmcc Historical Data Services Package

 o  DECmcc Configuration Package

 o  DECmcc Fault Diagnostic Package

 o  DECmcc ELM (AM/FM) for ULTRIX

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 For VMS:

 Software Licenses: QL-VM9A9-AA
 Software Media: QA-VM9AA-H5
 Software Documentation: QA-VM9AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VM9A*-**

 For ULTRIX:

 Software Licenses: QL-GU3A8-AA
 Software Media: QA-GU3AA-H5
 Software Documentation: QA-GU3AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-GU3A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

                                  9

 

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, please con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 License Management Facility

 This layered product supports the VMS and ULTRIX RISC License Manage-
 ment Facility (LMF).

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited Use ba-
 sis.

 Note: To use the DECmcc Director in a Diskless Management System (DMS)
 environment, the DMS server must be a supported DECmcc Director con-
 figuration, including a comparable DECmcc Director license.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx), the
 ULTRIX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 26.40.xx),
 or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS or ULTRIX Oper-
 ating System documentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 Other Network Management Services are also available. These include,
 but are not restricted to, the following:

 o  Network Management Operations Services

 o  Network Management Planning and Design Services

 o  Network Management Implementation Services

 o  Network Management Training

 For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Office.

                                 10

 

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ADVANTAGE-NETWORK, CI, DECmcc, DECnet, DEC-
    station, DECsystem, DECwindows, DMS, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, ULTRIX,
    VAX, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.




























                                 11
