 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Message Router, Version 3.2      SPD 26.33.10
                          VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, 
                              Version 3.2
                    	  VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, 
                              Version 3.2

           DESCRIPTION

           VAX Message Router (MR) is the core component of Digital Equip-
           ment Corporation's MAILbus Message Transfer System. VAX Mes-
           sage Router is a layered software product that resides on
           VAX/VMS systems and provides three services to MAILbus mes-
           saging networks - Message Transfer Service, Directory Ser-
           vices and Management Services. The primary use for Message
           Router and MAILbus is in interpersonal messaging (electronic
           mail or E-Mail) applications but it may be used by any ap-
           plication, such as Digital's DEC/EDI Electronic Data Inter-
           change software, needing to move information across a com-
           puter network.

           Available as separate products are the VAX Message Router
           VMSmail Gateway (MRGATE), which provides a connection be-
           tween MAILbus and VMSmail - the simple personal mail util-
           ity of the VMS Operating System, and the VAX Message Router
           Programmer's Kit (MRIF) for developing applications that in-
           terface to MR's Message Transfer Service.

           Message Transfer Service

           VAX Message Router provides a store and forward reliable trans-
           fer service for messages through a DECnet network. These mes-
           sages can contain any information needing transport within
           a DECnet network, including text, data and arbitrary files.

                                    DIGITAL            November 1991

                                                         AE-X069K-TE

 



           VAX Message Router, Version 3.2             SPD 26.33.10
           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, 
               Version 3.2
           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, 
               Version 3.2

           The structure of the messages conforms to the format spec-
           ified by the CCITT X.400 Recommendations for Message Han-
           dling Systems. Message headers are constructed with fields
           defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technolo-
           gies (NIST, formerly the National Bureau of Standards - NBS)
           Specification for the Message Format for Computer Based Mes-
           saging Systems.

           In addition to Message Router, User Agents (application pro-
           grams such as Digital's ALL-IN-1 MAIL and ALL-IN-1 Integrated
           Office Systems) are required for an originator to create a
           message or a recipient to read a message when it is deliv-
           ered. MAILbus Gateways connecting to other vendors' messag-
           ing systems or to public messaging networks can also be sources
           or destinations for messages. Organizations may develop their
           own applications, using the VAX Message Router Programmer's
           Kit, to send and receive messages through Message Router.

           Message Router provides full support for delivery notifi-
           cation services and transmission of service and status mes-
           sages. Network managers may establish routing schemes for
           messages by relying on default DECnet configurations, des-
           tination routing using route tables or area routing for large
           complex networks involving interconnected "hub" nodes for
           each area.

           Directory Service

           Message Router contains the MAILbus Directory Service (DDS).
           DDS is a single logical directory of subscribers and other
           MAILbus network information which can be distributed across
           a number of MR systems. End users, through their user agents,
           may make inquiries of the directory to find the address of
           their correspondents. Most MAILbus gateways use DDS for ad-
           dress translation for message originators and/or recipients
           in other vendors' messaging networks or external networks.
           DDS has utilities to allow replication and automatic update
           of directory information across the MR nodes in a MAILbus
           network.

                                       2

 


           VAX Message Router, Version 3.2             SPD 26.33.10
           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, 
               Version 3.2
           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, 
               Version 3.2

           DDS will optimally support a population of up to 20,000 sub-
           scribers and/or 30 MR nodes. Consulting services from Dig-
           ital are available to assist in Directory Service design and
           implementation. The consulting services are recommended where
           network population exceeds these numbers or is subject to
           frequent changes.

           Management Service

           The MR Management Service monitors the mail network for er-
           ror and exception conditions and helps with routine manage-
           ment of Message Router. Error and exception reports may be
           delivered to the MR network manager as events happen and/or
           on a scheduled basis. Management Action Procedures recom-
           mend corrective procedures for specific conditions. For com-
           plex networks, use of the MAILbus Monitor, available from
           Digital's services organization, is recommended to assist
           in the management of the messaging network.






















                                       3

 


           VAX Message Router, Version 3.2             SPD 26.33.10
           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, 
               Version 3.2
           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, 
               Version 3.2

           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway

           The VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway (MRGATE), available
           as a separate layered software product, provides an inter-
           face between the MAILbus Message Transfer Service and the
           VMS Personal Mail Utility. MRGATE provides conversion be-
           tween the NIST protocols of Message Router and the MAIL-11
           protocols of VMSmail. Address conversion is accomplished through
           use of an extended address syntax without reference to the
           DDS Directory Service.

           Limited document content conversion is performed on messages
           passing from Message Router to VMSmail. WPS-PLUS and DECdx
           format documents are converted to ASCII text format. Any other
           file types are passed through MRGATE unconverted. If a mes-
           sage contains multiple text attachments, these attachments
           are concatenated into a single ASCII text message for on-
           ward transmission through VMSmail. If the message contains
           unlike attachments, a set of pre-defined rules determine which
           attachments are forwarded to VMSmail and which are dropped,
           since VMSmail does not support multiple content types in a
           single message. Only text message transfer is supported when
           the message recipient's system is running the VMSmail Per-
           sonal Mail Utility of the VMS Operating System, Version 5.1
           or earlier. No content conversion is performed on messages
           passing from VMSmail to Message Router.

           To provide connection to MAILbus, the VAX Message Router soft-
           ware is required by and included with the license and me-
           dia kit for VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway.

           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit

           Available as a separate product, the VAX Message Router Pro-
           grammer's Kit (MRIF) consists of a run-time library of high-
           level interface routines that may be built into user appli-
           cations and a Programming Guide to assist users in writing
           those applications. This material simplifies the develop-
           ment of the application program modules that assemble and

                                       4

 


           VAX Message Router, Version 3.2             SPD 26.33.10
           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, 
               Version 3.2
           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, 
               Version 3.2

           disassemble messages, post and fetch messages from Message
           Router, and handle messaging service elements.

           MRIF is required only for application development. The ap-
           plications developed using it may be run on any MR system
           without MRIF being installed on that system; MR itself con-
           taining the necessary run time libraries.

           To provide connection to MAILbus, the VAX Message Router soft-
           ware is required by and is included with the license and me-
           dia kit for VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit.

           INSTALLATION

           Message Router forms only one part of a distributed elec-
           tronic messaging application. Important activities, such as
           coordination with other messaging components and planning
           for the subscriber entries in the directory service, must
           precede the installation of this product. Digital offers a
           number of services to assist customers with these tasks. Re-
           fer to the SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES section of this SPD for
           more information.

           Only experienced customers should attempt installation of
           these products. Digital recommends that all other customers
           purchase Digital's Installation Services. These services pro-
           vide for installation of the software products by an expe-
           rienced Digital Software Specialist.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processors and/or hardware configuration as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 26.33.10-x).







                                       5

 




           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System

           DECnet-VAX

           The VAX Message Router base software is required by and in-
           cluded with the software license and media kits for VAX Mes-
           sage Router VMSmail Gateway and VAX Message Router Program-
           mer's Kit.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.33.10-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           VAX Message Router

           Software Licenses: QL-732A*-**
           Software Media: QA-732A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-732A*-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-732A*-**

           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway

           Software Licenses: QL-730A*-**
           Software Media: QA-730A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-730A*-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-730A*-**

           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway software license and me-
           dia kit include the software license and media kit for the
           required VAX Message Router software.






                                       6

 



           VAX Message Router, Version 3.2             SPD 26.33.10
           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, 
               Version 3.2
           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, 
               Version 3.2

           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit

           Software Licenses: QL-733A*-**
           Software Media: QA-733A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-733A*-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-733A*-**

           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit software license and me-
           dia kit include the software license and media kit for the
           required VAX Message Router software.

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           These layered products support the VMS License Management
           Facility.

           License units for these products are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.






                                       7

 


           VAX Message Router, Version 3.2             SPD 26.33.10
           VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway, 
               Version 3.2
           VAX Message Router Programmer's Kit, 
               Version 3.2

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           MAILbus products are components of larger distributed mes-
           saging applications, which may involve multiple vendors' sys-
           tems in multiple locations. Digital offers a number of con-
           sulting services to assist customers in the planning, in-
           stallation and management of these messaging applications
           and related directory services, integration of PC-based mes-
           saging systems, and the provision of network wide directory
           services.

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for these software products is provided by Digi-
           tal with the purchase of a license for the product as de-
           fined in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           Warranty Limitations

           The VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway performs content con-
           version on WPS-PLUS and DECdx documents. Absolute fidelity
           between an original document and the resulting document, as
           printed or displayed by the receiving system, is not guar-
           anteed. The differences between design approaches to word
           processing systems, the transformations required for the trans-
           fer and printing of a document, and the types of printers
           used may all affect the resulting printed document.

           [R] IBM and PROFS are registered trademarks of Interna-
               tional Business Machines Corporation.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, CI, DEC, DECdx, DECnet,
                MicroVAX, RA, RL, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft,
                VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, and WPS-PLUS are trade-
                marks of Digital Equipment Corporation.


                                       8
