 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0        SPD
          27.F8.00
          DESCRIPTION

          The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user
          interface to VMS. DECwindows incorporates the Open Software
          Foundation's Motif user interface as the design center for
          DECwindows applications. OSF/Motif is a graphical user inter-
          face widely acknowledged as the industry standard. This user
          interface defines a powerful model for interacting with the VMS
          Operating System using a point-and-click metaphor. DECwindows
          includes a set of integrated desktop applications that demon-
          strate the power of this metaphor and provide VMS users with a
          base set of desktop tools.

          VMS DECwindows Motif is based on MIT's specification for the X
          Window System, Version 11, Release 4 and OSF/Motif V1.1.1.[*] X
          Window System standards supported as part of DECwindows include
          the X11 network protocol, a base set of workstation fonts, the
          C language binding for the Xlib programming library and the
          C language binding for the Xtoolkit library. For workstation
          users, DECwindows support for the Adobe Display PostScript
          System is integrated into X11.

          Support of the X11 network protocol in the client library and
          display server components provides VMS with the ability to
          interoperate with other X11-compliant systems in a distributed
          fashion.

          [*] Software supplied by OSF may not be upward compatible with
          future DECwindows releases.


                                       DIGITAL                October 1991

                                                               AE-PHW2A-TE

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          Licensee agrees to only execute Display PostScript on those
          Digital computer systems identified as licensed systems in this
          Software Product Description, and that in any event licensee
          agrees not to make use of the software, directly or indirectly,
          to print bitmap images with print resolutions greater than 150
          DPI, or to generate fonts or typefaces for use other than with
          the Digital licensed system.

          DECwindows supports the client-server distribution inherent
          in the X Window System. This client-server model provides for
          running X Window clients on one node and displaying output
          to another node, using a transport to communicate between the
          nodes. DECwindows provides three transport interfaces - local
          shared memory, DECnet, and TCP/IP (using Digital's VMS/ULTRIX
          Connection (UCX) layered product). Users can also provide their
          own transport subsystems and transport interfaces.

          To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows or X ap-
          plication runs on or can communicate with a VMS DECwindows Motif
          system, consult the application's software product description.

          The VMS DECwindows Motif user environment consists of four basic
          components:

          1. The Session Manager provides the top-level user interface to
             a DECwindows workstation. It performs application activation,
             session-wide customization, security management, and session
             control. The Session Manager also lets users specify the lan-
             guage user interface for supported DECwindows applications,
             provided they have ordered, installed, and are licensed to
             use the appropriate VMS DECwindows Motif language User In-
             terface kit(s). For the supported language User Interfaces,
             refer to the User Interface Language Support section of this
             SPD. For a description of which applications have translated
             user interfaces and specific local hardware and software sup-
             port provided in the language User Interface kits, refer to
             the relevant language System Support Addendum (SSA).


                                          2

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          2. The Window Manager provides user control for managing win-
             dows. The OSF/Motif Window Manager is provided as the default
             window manager. The DECwindows X User Interface (XUI) Window
             Manager is also available, allowing the user to choose the
             type of window management preferred.

          3. FileView, a graphical interface to VMS file management,
             allows users to navigate the VMS file system and to perform
             operations on files.

          4. The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users
             with a traditional character-cell interface for existing VMS
             features and applications. It is a VT320 terminal emulator.
             It supports ReGIS and Sixel but is not fully VT340 compati-
             ble. Programs written for VT52, VT100, VT220, or VT320 class
             terminals and using VMS terminal driver features operate
             without modification in this workstation window. DECterm also
             provides workstation-oriented features such as mouse-based
             cursor positioning, variable screen sizes, and cutting and
             pasting of text between terminal emulators and other DECwin-
             dows applications. Many programs can also use these features
             without modification.

          Applications

          A set of integrated desktop applications is provided as a base
          component of the DECwindows environment. These applications
          establish and demonstrate the consistent DECwindows user model.
          They also provide significant end-user capabilities.

          The following applications have been ported to OSF/Motif and are
          available in this version of VMS DECwindows Motif:

          o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that
             are distributed and stored online

          o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator

          o  Calendar - A personal time management system

                                          3

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          o  Cardfiler - A hierarchical information storage application
             similar to an online address and/or phone book

          o  Clock - An analog and/or digital date and time display with
             an alarm notification

          o  Compound Document Viewer - A tool for reading documents con-
             taining compound text, graphics, and image data on terminals
             and DECwindows workstations

          o  Computer Based Instruction - An online tutorial for novice
             Motif users. Users can learn how to use the mouse and do
             other simple operations with Motif

          o  Linkworks Manager - A tool for creating and managing links
             between different types of computer information, like mail
             messages, cards from cardfiles, or information from on- line
             books

          o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS mail facility

          o  Message Window - A window that displays system messages, like
             new mail notification or system manager messages

          o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor

          o  Print Screen - A tool for capturing images on the screen and
             either saving the image to a file or printing it directly

          o  Puzzle game - A game that challenges the player to sort
             numbered puzzle tiles

          DECwindows workstation users can display PostScript files fea-
          turing WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) compatibility
          between the display and any of Digital's PostScript printers.
          Display PostScript ability is available within the Compound
          Document viewer and DECwindows Mail.

          User Interface Language Support

                                          4

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          Please contact your local Digital office for the latest infor-
          mation on availability of options and supported multilingual
          configurations. For more details on the language User Inter-
          faces, refer to the specific language SPD/SSAs. Refer also to
          the ORDERING INFORMATION and SOFTWARE LICENSING Sections of this
          SPD.

          Programming Support

          The VMS DECwindows Motif environment includes an extensive set
          of programming libraries and tools for use by developers of
          new applications. The libraries are provided in the form of
          shareable images.

          There are four categories of libraries provided: standard X
          Window System libraries such as Xlib and the Intrinsics, li-
          braries needed to support the current base of XUI applications,
          OSF/Motif toolkit support for developing applications using the
          Motif user interface style, and Digital added-value libraries
          that give users additional capabilities.

          The eight libraries provided with VMS DECwindows Motif include:

          o  X Window System programming library (Xlib) support

          o  X Window System Intrinsics support (Xtoolkit)

          o  OSF/Motif User Interface support

          o  Digital's Extensions to OSF/Motif

          o  X User Interface (XUI) support

          o  Porting tools to be used to change applications from the XUI
             interface to the OSF/Motif user interface style

          o  Compound Document Architecture (CDA) support

          o  Display PostScript (DPS) support

                                          5

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          Components from each of these areas can be used in any combi-
          nation to address the needs of applications. These components
          can also use the tools from a variety of different programming
          languages. The programming libraries have been provided with
          procedural language bindings in either the style of the VAX
          calling standard, the style of the MIT C language programming
          conventions, or both conventions.

          Motif language bindings are provided for the following program-
          ming languages:

             VAX Ada
             VAX FORTRAN
             VAX C
             VAX Pascal

          XUI language bindings are provided for the following programming
          languages:

             VAX Ada
             VAX FORTRAN
             VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language
             VAX Pascal
             VAX BASIC
             VAX MACRO
             VAX C (VAX calling standard or MIT convention)
             VAX PL/I

          The eight programming support libraries are described in more
          detail below.

          X Window System (X) Programming Support

          The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib)
          provided by the VMS DECwindows Motif environment supplies basic
          resource management (windows, color maps, input devices) and
          bitmap graphics services. It defines a mapping of the X network
          protocol to a procedure library.

          X Window System Intrinsics Support

                                          6

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          VMS DECwindows Motif provides a library that contains both the
          MIT Release 3 (R3) and MIT Release 4 (R4) Intrinsics (Xtoolkit).
          The Xtoolkit provides low-level routines allowing the creation
          of user interface objects called widgets. The R3 intrinsics
          are included in the library to provide binary compatibility for
          images created using previous versions of VMS DECwindows.

          Note: All libraries that Digital ships with VMS DECwindows
          Motif and any applications that are relinked will use the new R4
          Intrinsics.

          OSF/Motif User Interface Programming Support

          OSF/Motif is the new user interface model for Digital and third-
          party software tailored for the DECwindows environment. It
          establishes the conventions and styles that are encouraged for
          applications that share a DECwindows workstation. Applications
          use Motif components to build user interfaces that look and feel
          like integrated members of the Digital computing environment.
          OSF/Motif also provides more efficient user interface objects
          called gadgets.

          The OSF/Motif Style Guide, available in the VMS DECwindows Motif
          Programming Kit, describes the principles, philosophy, and com-
          ponents used to build consistent and well-integrated OSF/Motif
          applications. In addition, VMS DECwindows Motif provides the
          DECwindows Companion to the OSF/Motif Style Guide. This doc-
          ument provides additional information concerning the style of
          OSF/Motif user interfaces. It also provides guidelines con-
          cerning additional features that Digital provides in the VMS
          DECwindows Motif offering, and includes a Digital preferred ter-
          minology list for a number of supported languages for developers
          producing OSF/Motif applications in these languages.

          The OSF/Motif style concepts are implemented by the OSF/Motif
          Toolkit. The OSF/Motif Toolkit uses the MIT Xtoolkit. It con-
          tains three components:


                                          7

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          o  OSF/Motif widgets and gadgets for implementing common user
             interface objects such as scroll bars, menus, and push but-
             tons

          o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions for
             performing common tasks such as cut and paste

          o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface defi-
             nition files and creating widgets and gadgets based on the
             contents of the definition files

          The OSF/Motif toolkit is used in conjunction with the OSF/Motif
          User Interface Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface
          definition files produced by this compiler contain the data
          that describes the form of DECwindows applications and allows
          OSF/Motif toolkit widget and gadget details, such as menu item
          labels, to be stored separately from the toolkit and application
          run-time code. This capability allows application developers
          to prototype and easily modify user interface designs, separate
          form from function in applications, and support translatable
          products that do not require recompilation of source files.

          Digital's Extensions to OSF/Motif

          Digital provides added value to the standard OSF/Motif toolkit.
          Digital ships a library that includes a set of Digital developed
          widgets and runtime routines that are not available from OSF.
          The widgets provide a common DECwindows interface for some com-
          monly used DECwindows functions. The widgets provided include:

          o  A Color Mix widget that enables users to select and mix
             colors using a variety of color models

          o  A Compound String Text widget that provides support for
             international right-to-left character sets as well as left-
             to-right writing directions

          o  A Help widget that allows applications to display appropriate
             help text in a consistent manner

                                          8

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          o  A Print widget that allows applications to print files in a
             consistent manner

          o  A Structured Visual Navigation (SVN) widget used by applica-
             tions to display hierarchical information

          The runtime routines provided include:

          o  Three DECwindows Help System calls that enable users to
             display online help files using Bookreader.

          o  Linkworks Services that allow applications to easily partici-
             pate in the Linkworks Environment. These services provide
             generic user interface and information object manipula-
             tion capabilities for managing Linkworks Objects. Using the
             Linkworks Services, an application can:

             -  Augment its user interface by adding the Linkworks naviga-
                tion capabilities

             -  Create, copy, and delete Linkworks Objects

             -  Set and retrieve the values of the properties of Linkworks
                Objects - properties may have one or more values of a num-
                ber of different types (integer, boolean, floating point,
                date, character string, DDIF string, and LWK object)

             -  Perform property value based queries on the Links or Sur-
                rogates contained in Linknets, and the Steps or Surrogates
                contained in Paths

             -  Store and retrieve Linkworks Objects in Linkworks
                linkbases (persistent storage)

          o  DECimage runtime support for applications developed using
             DECimage Application Services. This support includes the
             Image Services Library, Image Display Services and X Image
             Extensions.

          X User Interface (XUI) Programming Support

                                          9

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          VMS DECwindows Motif continues to provide the XUI Toolkit. The
          XUI Toolkit is based on the MIT R4 Xtoolkit intrinsics. This
          toolkit implements the XUI user interface style used by previous
          versions of VMS DECwindows. However, new applications should
          be written to OSF/Motif as Motif is the open standard user
          interface adopted by a wide variety of vendors.

          Porting Tools

          Digital provides XUI-to-Motif porting tools to aid programmers
          in porting applications to Motif. These tools replace occur-
          rences of XUI names in the input source file with the correct
          Motif names.

          Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Programming Support

          The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications can
          use to create, read, and write files containing compound text,
          graphics, and imaging data. These files provide a vehicle for
          recording this information on disk, a medium for interchange of
          this data between applications, and an intermediate form from
          which high-resolution printable graphics data can be generated.

          Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

          The Display PostScript System provided with VMS DECwindows
          Motif extends the native X graphical programming environment
          for DECwindows users displaying text or images on workstations
          that support the XDPS extension.

          X Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the
          basic X11 environment:

          o  All DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rota-
             tion angle.

          o  XDPS graphics are specified in a user-defined coordinate
             system independent of monitor density.

                                         10

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          o  Color or gray-scale rendition is automatically modified to
             take advantage of the monitor type through either direct
             display, color dithering, or half-toning.

          o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and
             executed on command.

          o  Sophisticated graphics primitives, such as precisely con-
             trolled Bezier curves, can be displayed.

          o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily.

          Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe Client Library.
          In addition, a converter called pswrap allows users to convert
          PostScript code into C programs that can be called from other
          languages.

          Display Server Extension Support

          The VMS DECwindows Motif Display Server supports the following
          extensions:

          o  Display PostScript: "Adobe-DPS-Extension" as defined jointly
             by Adobe Systems, Incorporated and Digital and registered
             with the MIT X Consortium. Allows the display server to
             execute PostScript commands to support the XDPS programming
             environment.

          o  Phigs Extension to X: "X3D_PEX" as defined by the MIT X Con-
             sortium. Allows the Display Server to provide 3D hardware
             support for DEC PHIGS, the Programmer's Hierarchical Interac-
             tive Graphics System.

          o  X Imaging Extension: "Xie" as defined by the MIT X Con-
             sortium. Allows the Display Server to provide hardware or
             software support for imaging operations for ISL, the image
             services library.

          o  XTRAP: "DEC-XTRAP" as defined by Digital and registered with
             the MIT X Consortium. Allows the display service to provide
             support for hands-off testing programs like DTM, the DEC Test
             Manager.

                                         11

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          o  Multi-Buffering: "Multi-Buffering" as defined by the MIT X
             Consortium. Allows the display server to provide support for
             multiply-buffered images.

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as speci-
          fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.F8.00-A).

          VMS DECwindows Motif runs on any of the supported processors,
          but requires either a workstation, a DOS-based PC, a Macintosh
          or an Xterminal for display. These display devices must be
          running an X Window System, Version 11, Release 4 compliant
          display server.

          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

          VMS Operating System

          * Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.F8.00-A) for
          availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
          software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
          dows.

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          Software Licenses: QP-LBFN*-AA
          Software Media: QA-LBFN*-H*

          For Additional Language User Interfaces:

          Software Licenses: QL-XDD**-**
          Software Media: QA-XDD**-**
          Software Documentation: QA-XDD**-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-XDD**-**

          * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
          able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
          price book.

          SOFTWARE LICENSING

                                         12

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          This layered product offers a Personal Use license. Each Per-
          sonal Use License allows one identified individual to use the
          layered product.

          Customers who wish to run DECwindows over TCP/IP need only pur-
          chase the VMS/ULTRIX Connection product media and documentation
          kit. The license rights for TCP/IP in a DECwindows environment
          are included in the VMS Operating System license. Customers who
          want to utilize the full VMS/ULTRIX Connection functionality
          (FTP, NFS, TELNET) need to purchase a separate license. Re-
          fer to the VMS/ULTRIX Connection System Support Addendum (SSA
          25.A4.xx-x) for required versions.

          Refer to the Third Party Licensing section in Appendix A, for
          information regarding the Adobe licensing.

          For VAXstation customers, Digital provides a VMS DECwindows
          Motif capacity workstation license with the purchase of a VAXs-
          tation system.

          Licensing of Language User Interfaces

          The VMS DECwindows Motif software license is available under a
          unilingual or bilingual option. The unilingual option (QL-XA1A*-
          **) includes the right to use VMS DECwindows Motif software with
          the American/English User Interface. The bilingual option (QL-
          XA1**-**) adds another language User Interface depending on the
          option purchased. The bilingual option is standard outside the
          United States.

          Supported language User Interfaces for VMS DECwindows Motif
          include:


                                         13

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          Danish, Finnish, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, French,
          Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Chinese (Simplified and Tradi-
          tional), Korean, and Japanese.

          If additional languages are required, in addition to the dual
          language combinations described above, a separate license for
          each standalone language User Interface (QL-XDD**-**) is re-
          quired, as well as the relevant software kit. All the supported
          languages are available, but there are some restrictions on
          language combinations. Refer to the relevant language User In-
          terface SSA for details on supported language combinations in
          each country.

          VMS DECwindows Motif language User Interfaces are generally
          supported only in countries where the language is an official
          language. However for some countries this may vary. Consult the
          relevant language User Interface SSA or your local sales office
          to check for the availability of additional language support in
          your country/location.

          LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

          This product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

          License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity
          basis.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
          to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description tion
          (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the
          VMS Operating System documentation set.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
          more information, contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

                                         14

 


          VMS DECwindows Motif/Norsk Version 1.0              SPD 27.F8.00



          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
          the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
          Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

          [R]Motif, OSF, and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks of the
          Open Software Foundation, Inc.

          [R]PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Sys- tems,
          Incorporated.

          [R]Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Com- puter, Inc.

          [R]MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpo- ration.

          [TM]Intel is a trademark of the Intel Corporation.

          [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECimage, DECnet, DECterm, DEC
          VUIT, DECwindows, Linkworks, MicroVAX, ReGIS, TK, ULTRIX, VAX,
          VAX Ada, VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal, VAX BASIC, VAX MACRO, VAX C,
          VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT and XUI are
          trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.


















                                         15
