 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 500/550 for VMS, Version 2.2  SPD 26.97.04

 DESCRIPTION

 The DECserver 500 series server is an Ethernet Communications Server
 for Ethernet local area networks (LANs). The DECserver 500 series server
 can provide up to 128 EIA-423-A or 64 RS-232 asynchronous port con-
 nections to Digital asynchronous terminals. Both RS-232, via the 8 port
 CXY08 communications option card, and EIA-423-A, via the 16 port CXA16
 communications option card and EIA-422 16 port CXB16 communications
 option card can be mixed together in any combination from two to eight
 cards in one server. The DECserver 500 series server provides a con-
 venient method to connect logically up to 128 Digital asynchronous ter-
 minals to one or more service nodes (hosts) on an Ethernet. Once the
 terminal is connected, a user can use application programs and util-
 ities as though the terminal was directly connected to a host via a
 DZ11, DMF32, or DHU11 device, with a few exceptions. Thus, it may be
 possible to use the DECserver 500 series server to connect all ter-
 minals to service nodes in place of traditional interfaces, except for
 host console terminals. Remote connection via dial-in modems is fully
 supported. See the Restrictions section for limitations.

 The DECserver 550 server provides the additional support of IBM[R] 3270
 CUT type displays through the use of the CXM04 option card (refer to
 the Software Product Description (SPD 25.G5.xx) for more details on
 the CXM04).

 The DECserver 500 series server also allows for VMS host-initiated con-
 nections to asynchronous printers. A special print symbiont on VMS ser-
 vice nodes can initiate connections to asynchronous printers connected
 to DECserver 500 series ports. This allows the printers to be distributed
 throughout a facility and accessed transparently by service node users.
 Incoming host-initiated connect requests may be queued FIFO at the server.

                               DIGITAL                 November 1993

                                                         AE-KN88E-TE

 

 This special print symbiont is included in the software distribution
 kits for VMS V5.0 to V6.0 and OpenVMS V1.5.

 The DECserver 500 series server also provides the capability to con-
 nect host systems that do not support the Local Area Transport (LAT)
 protocol, Digital personal computers, and dial-out modems directly to
 ports on the server. Interactive server users can issue commands to
 connect to services that are offered on such ports. Port-to-port con-
 nections on the same server are also supported.

 The DECserver 500 series server implements the LAT protocol for com-
 munications with service nodes that implement this protocol on the same
 Ethernet. This interface has been optimized for high terminal I/O per-
 formance over an Ethernet while reducing host CPU cycles required to
 handle interrupts. Hence, under most I/O loading conditions, a sig-
 nificant performance gain may be realized by using the DECserver 500
 series servers as opposed to direct terminal connections.

 The DECserver 500 series server implements the On-Demand Loading (ODL)
 font loading protocol, which allows Asian terminals that implement the
 ODL protocol to communicate with a suitable VMS host via a terminal
 server. The Asian terminals will be able to request font definitions
 from a suitable VMS host when connected to a DECserver 500 series server.

 The DECserver 500 series server also implements and supports the Ter-
 minal Device/Session Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple
 sessions at the device level. The DECserver 500 series servers pro-
 vide the ability to communicate with devices that also implement this
 protocol, and assist in the management of multiple sessions for these
 devices. By implementing this protocol, the DECserver 500 series servers
 can permit attached devices to maintain screen and keyboard context
 for multiple LAT sessions, as well as allow these devices to run mul-
 tiple LAT sessions concurrently.

 Software that runs on the DECserver 500 series server is downline loaded
 over the network from a Phase IV DECnet load host. Terminal access us-
 ing the DECserver 500 series server does not require DECnet running
 in the same service node; LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism
 to transport terminal messages.

                                  2

 

 For wide area network (WAN) communications, terminal users can con-
 nect to a LAN service node running DECnet where they can "SET HOST"
 to a remote system via the DECnet network terminal protocol. If this
 system has the prerequisite X.29 or SNA 3270 access routines, a ter-
 minal user could communicate to a remote SNA or X.25 host through the
 appropriate gateway and this intervening host. A DECserver 500 series
 terminal user cannot communicate directly to remote hosts through DEC-
 net Routers or X.25/SNA Gateways. WAN traffic will not provide the same
 high level of performance as local terminal connections due to the ad-
 ditional DECnet and internet protocol overhead.

 Features

 Terminal Connection Management

 Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a logical con-
 nection, called a session, to any service node that implements the LAT
 protocol on the same Ethernet LAN. This connection makes the termi-
 nal appear as if it were physically connected to the service node, and
 the terminal user can use standard system utilities and applications
 supported by that node. Each terminal connected to the server can con-
 nect to the same or a different service node on the Ethernet. Further-
 more, several servers can be used to connect many terminals to one or
 more service nodes.

 A service node can have one or more services that are offered to DEC-
 server 500 series server users. Services and nodes are identified by
 name. Users usually connect to services, not to nodes, although of-
 ten one of the service names will be the node name. Users can option-
 ally specify a node and/or a port name when they connect to a service.

 In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 500 series server sees each
 VAXcluster on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes offering
 a common service. Each cluster node may also offer a service whose name
 is equivalent to its node name. In this case, a terminal user can con-
 nect either to the cluster service or to a service associated with a
 particular cluster node.

 Non-LAT Host Support

                                  3

 

 The DECserver 500 series server can be used to provide logical ter-
 minal connections to hosts that do not implement the LAT protocol. In
 this type of configuration, the server becomes the Ethernet connec-
 tion and protocol support for these hosts. This expands the LAT net-
 work accessibility to the terminal user to include LAT hosts directly
 connected to the same Ethernet, and hosts connected to the LAT net-
 work via the DECserver 500 series server. Non-LAT host support should
 be implemented through the use of the CXY08 hardware option only.

 A host that supports XON/XOFF, ASCII standards, and EIA RS-232-C/CCITT
 V.24/V.28 interfaces can be connected to the DECserver 500 series server.
 This provides the terminal user with a transparent connection to the
 non-LAT host. It is strongly recommended that the server port and the
 host-side port use the modem control signals to signal the host au-
 tomatically on session disconnection. In this application the server
 port appears to the host as a dial-in modem. However, hosts that re-
 quire more than one transition of the RING signal are not supported.

 In this configuration there is a one-to-one correspondence between the
 port on a DECserver 500 series server and the connection on the host.
 The server manager assigns service names to individual ports or groups
 of ports that connect the host interface to the server.

 Load Balancing

 When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the con-
 nection is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a process
 the server uses when more than one node offers the same service. Ser-
 vice nodes do not have to be configured in a cluster in order for load
 balancing to be used. Service nodes with the same names may be run-
 ning different operating systems. Using the load balancing process,
 the server connects to the node with the highest rating for the ser-
 vice desired. This rating is based on the current loading on the nodes
 that offer the service.

 Multiple Sessions




                                  4

 

 The DECserver 500 series server allows a single user to establish and
 maintain up to eight sessions to one or more service nodes (up to 64),
 up to a maximum of 512 sessions per DECserver 550 unit. The DECserver
 500 supports up to 256 sessions. The DECserver 500, when equipped with
 the optional upgrade, will support up to a maximum of 512 sessions.
 Only one session can be active at a time on each port. Through sim-
 ple switching commands, the user can access the different sessions with-
 out repeating a login dialog each time. The number of simultaneous LAT
 sessions supported by a service node depends on the type of operat-
 ing system running on that node.

 Multiple Session Management

 The DECserver 500 series servers allow direct communications with de-
 vices that support TD/SMP protocol. This protocol provides the abil-
 ity for the attached device to maintain screen and keyboard context
 for the multiple LAT sessions that the DECserver 500 series servers
 provide. By implementing the ability to communicate with this proto-
 col directly to the attached device, the DECserver 500 series servers
 can now assist in the management of context of these multiple sessions,
 as well as allow for simultaneous output to multiple LAT sessions be-
 ing maintained by the device.


















                                  5

 

 Outbound Connection Queues

 If a terminal user requests a connection to a server, and the requested
 service is currently in use, the terminal server may opt to have the
 connection request queued to the remote service. This feature will hap-
 pen automatically whenever a connection fails for this reason if the
 user's port has been appropriately configured. The connection request
 is queued at the service node end and is processed first-in/first-out
 until the user's connection request can be completed. This feature as-
 sists in the fair management of limited resources. Once queued for con-
 nection, the user also has the option to cancel the queue entry and
 proceed with other sessions.

 Welcome Identification

 The DECserver 500 series servers standard welcome banner, which in-
 cludes terminal server type, version number, and protocol version num-
 ber, is issued whenever a user successfully logs in to the server. The
 server will also print a server manager settable identification string.
 This can be useful for automatic server identification, or for small
 daily messages used for communications with the terminal server users.

 Local Mode and Service Mode

 For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver 500 se-
 ries server is identical to that the user would experience if attached
 directly to the service node. When operating in this mode, the user
 is said to be in Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during connec-
 tion establishment, the user interacts directly with the DECserver 500
 series unit. When operating in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

 In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by DECserver
 500/550 software as commands to be performed by the server.

 Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged, non-
 privileged, and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the server man-
 ager to control the environment of the server and the terminal users.



                                  6

 

 Access to this mode is password protected. Nonprivileged commands al-
 low the terminal user to control that user's service sessions, set ter-
 minal characteristics, and show server information. The server man-
 ager can set the server to secure mode on a per-terminal basis, which
 further limits the commands users can enter to only those that directly
 relate to the user's own terminal.

 The server manager environment is a logical extension of the user en-
 vironment. The server manager is treated as a server user with a priv-
 ileged status. The server manager sets a terminal to this status us-
 ing a command that requires a password. This privileged status allows
 the server manager to enter commands not normally available to server
 users. These commands set server characteristics, provide control over
 server port usage, and provide the ability to control the user's ac-
 cess to the server and network services.

 The LIMITED VIEW port characteristic is a mechanism by which the server
 manager can prevent certain ports from executing SHOW NODES and SHOW
 SERVICES commands.

 In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the connected
 service node, with several exceptions. One exception, called the lo-
 cal switch character, allows the user to enter Local Mode from Ser-
 vice Mode. The <BREAK> key may also be used for this function. Other
 exceptions, called the forward and backward switch characters, allow
 the user to switch between sessions without the need to enter local
 mode. The switch characters are disabled by default but may be enabled
 by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally,
 but flow control using these characters can be disabled.

 Autoconnection

 Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a user ter-
 minal to a service node when connection failures occur or upon user
 login to the server. In conjunction with this function, a dedicated
 or preferred service can be specified for each terminal user. If a fail-
 ure occurs, the server will automatically try every 30 seconds to re-
 establish a connection to the desired service.


                                  7

 

 If a dedicated service is specified for a port, the DECserver 500 se-
 ries server will attempt to connect the port to that service when a
 character is typed on the terminal keyboard or when an existing con-
 nection fails. In dedicated service mode, only one session is avail-
 able per port. As this mode is designed to simulate a direct termi-
 nal connection, no local mode commands or messages are available to
 the terminal user.

 If a preferred service is specified for a port, the DECserver 500 se-
 ries server will attempt to connect the port to the service as with
 the dedicated service mode of operation. However, the terminal user
 can enter local mode and establish other sessions.

 Node/Database Improvements

 With the increasing size of LAN's, servers on some networks may tem-
 porarily find themselves in the situation of having more nodes avail-
 able to them than they can store in server memory. This feature will
 purge all unused nodes and allow the server to update its node database,
 eventually allowing the user to connect to the desired service.




















                                  8

 

 Automatic Session Failover

 If a service is available on two or more service nodes and a connec-
 tion to a service fails, the server will attempt to connect the user
 to another service node offering the same service. The user does not
 have to be already connected to that service node. However, the user's
 context at the time of failure is not automatically restored and lo-
 gin to the new service is required.

 Line Card Redundancy

 This feature provides the server manager with the ability to redirect
 an active line card to a stand-by line card already installed in the
 server without bringing the server down. There are a few restrictions
 associated with the Line Card Redundancy feature:

 o  Stand-by line cards must be previously defined using the Terminal
    Server Configurator(TSC) or Terminal Server Manager(TSM).

 o  The physical stand-by line card must be present in the server at
    initialization time.

 o  Source and target line cards must be of the same type.

 o  Once a stand-by card becomes active as a result of a MOVE command,
    it can not go back to stand-by without reloading the server.

 For security, the line card redundancy feature does not attempt to pre-
 serve any sessions that the source (failed) line card users may have
 had before the move.

 Groups

 Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member of one
 or more groups, which are specified by a list of numbers from 0 - 255.
 Groups allow an easy means of subdividing the network into what ap-
 pears to be many smaller networks. A terminal user is only aware of
 the services that are offered by nodes in the same group(s).


                                  9

 

 The server manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which a ter-
 minal is a member. The authorized groups define the set of services
 that the user is allowed to access. In addition, a user can further
 restrict access to services by disabling some of the authorized groups
 using a non-privileged group command. The user-settable groups are a
 subset of the authorized groups.

 Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This restricted view
 is mainly for user convenience and, although it also provides a form
 of security, it is not intended to be the primary form of access au-
 thorization or system security for a node. Groups can also be used by
 the server manager to tune the server's usage of its available mem-
 ory. Security

 The DECserver 500/550 software provides functions that enhance secu-
 rity features already available in the service nodes. Security fea-
 tures include the ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from other users,
 optional login protection, and nonprivileged local mode of operation
 as a default.

 A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows the
 user to leave sessions running at the terminal without fear of secu-
 rity violations. When a terminal is locked, all input from the ter-
 minal is ignored until the lock password is re-entered. The lock fea-
 ture may be disabled by the Server Manager on a per-port basis or on
 a server-wide basis.

 Each terminal port can be set on the server to operate in a secure mode
 that causes all commands that relate to other users to be disabled for
 that port. The server manager can also define a unique password for
 each set of server ports offered as a service. This is useful for re-
 stricting access to devices like dial-out modems.

 Login password protection can be enabled on a per-line basis by the
 Server Manager. If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login pass-
 word to access server functions. The login password is changeable, but
 is a server-wide password.



                                 10

 

 There is also a maintenance password for protecting unauthorized down-
 line loads of the server or use of the Remote Console Facility (RCF)
 to manage the server remotely.

 The DSRLOGOUT feature can be set for any terminal and is used with the
 CXY08 and BC22D, BC17D or BC22R cable to detect terminal power-down
 and enact an automatic port logout that disconnects all sessions es-
 tablished from that port. On modem controlled dial-in ports, the server
 will automatically disconnect an incoming call if the user does not
 successfully log in to the server within 60 seconds.

 In Local Mode, DECserver 500 series users normally can use only the
 server's nonprivileged commands. In this mode, users may only issue
 commands that affect their own terminal environment. The server has
 a privileged mode for the server manager's use. This mode is password
 protected.

 Online HELP Facility

 A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's HELP
 command provides information on correct syntax and details about each
 command. In addition, a tutorial HELP feature allows new users to learn
 quickly the basics of DECserver 500/550 operation. Tutorial HELP may
 be entered before logging in to the server by typing HELP at the user-
 name prompt.

 A limited help characteristic is available. When this characteristic
 is enabled by TSM/TSC, an abbreviated help file will be loaded into
 the server freeing up more memory for session/nodes. When enabled, all
 help requests will result in the same abbreviated help screen, which
 lists the syntax of every server command available to the user. This
 characteristic could be enabled for DECserver 500's running with the
 KDJ11-SB (for DECserver 500) processor to increase the number of ses-
 sions/nodes obtainable. Enabling LIMITED HELP on a DECserver 500 run-
 ning with the KDJ11-SD (for DECserver 550) processor will not result
 in any additional sessions/nodes.

 Directory Service


                                 11

 

 Any suitable DECserver 500 series server user can obtain a directory
 of services available to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Ser-
 vices for which the user is not authorized will not be displayed. If
 limited view is enabled on the port, the user cannot perform a SHOW
 SERVICE.

 Permanent Characteristics

 Each DECserver 500 series server has a unique software image on its
 downline load host. A database of permanent characteristics is kept
 within each image. These characteristics can be changed prior to down-
 line load by the server manager or load host manager. All permanent
 characteristics can be changed by using the Terminal Server Config-
 urator (TSC) utility provided in the DECserver 500/550 software dis-
 tribution kit.

 TSC now supports the modification of CXM04 keyboard mapping tables from
 within the TSC program. Keyboard language table files are provided with
 the 3270 Terminal Software Option layered product. This product pro-
 vides the firmware and keyboard tables needed to use the CXM04 line
 card on the DECserver 550 (only).

 The keyboard table files, one for each supported keyboard language,
 are used by the CXM04 firmware to translate IBM scan codes to Digi-
 tal keys. Digital provides a default mapping that is described in the
 3270 Terminal Option User's Guide. For example, by default, the 3270
 ATTN key maps to the Digital VT220 BREAK (F5) key on the 3178 Models
 C1 and C2 keyboards.

 Port Characteristics Configuration

 Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port can be
 displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively from that user's
 terminal. Many of the characteristics can be set up by the user, but
 certain characteristics are privileged and can only be changed by the
 server manager.

 Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed, char-
 acter size, group, parity, terminal type, access, autobaud, modem, and
 password protection.

                                 12

 

 Port Access

 A port on a DECserver 500 series server may be set up in different ways
 depending on the device attached to the port and its intended use. Port
 access is the characteristic that determines how a port can access or
 be accessed by interactive users and service nodes.

 o  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This allows the
    device (typically an interactive terminal) attached to the port to
    CONNECT to LAT services. This type of access is also used for dial-
    in modems.

 o  Access Remote - Designed for applications-driven devices (like asyn-
    chronous printers) that are allocated by a service node process.
    This allows the implementation of certain shared printers by mul-
    tiple service nodes. This type of access is also used for connec-
    tions to dial-out modems and non-LAT host systems by interactive
    users.

 o  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (like dial-in/dial-out modems
    or printers with keyboards) that require both Local and Remote ac-
    cess, but not simultaneously.

 o  Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable the
    use of a port.

 With printer support capabilities, the setup procedure of remote print-
 ers needs to be done once and is automatically reconfigured on server
 and/or system startup. The particular server port must be configured
 for remote access and set up to match the characteristics of the printer.
 The system startup command file must be modified to call the two com-
 mand files provided with the service node software. Finally, the com-
 mand files themselves must be customized to reflect the environment
 of their node. The server can optionally queue remote connects if these
 connects cannot be satisfied immediately. This queue management can
 be enabled for the server by the server manager. Note that this is a
 connection queue only.

 Asynchronous Device Operation

                                 13

 

 The DECserver 500/550 software supports the simultaneous operation of
 up to 128 asynchronous devices at speeds from 50 bps to 38.4K bps un-
 der specified application conditions. The software also supports:

 o  Full modem control support (with CXY08 hardware option only)

 o  Data-leads-only support

 o  XON/XOFF flow control

 o  CTS/RTS and DSR/DTR flow control (with CXY08 hardware option only)

 o  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

 o  Block Mode transfers

 o  Automatic line speed detection

 o  Digital personal computer file transfer and terminal emulation

 o  Data transparency mode

 o  Ability to pass BREAK condition and error notification

 o  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP

 Server Management

 Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server op-
 eration. The server manager in privileged mode can set up server iden-
 tification information, change port characteristics, or fine tune the
 operating characteristics of the server. The server manager can also
 assign service names to groups of one or more ports that are connected
 to non-LAT hosts or modems. Troubleshooting facilities include diag-
 nostic tests, a remote console feature, online statistics and modem
 signal and flow control monitoring.

 A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications problems by loop-
 ing messages to an Ethernet host and through the Ethernet hardware in-
 terface at the server. To diagnose terminal problems, users can ex-
 ecute a command to transmit test data to their terminal. The server
 manager can send test data to any terminal, optionally using inter-
 nal or external loopback with data comparison.

                                 14

 

 The capability also exists for the server manager to test a service
 connection by sending data from the initiating port to the service node
 and back again. The data is then compared and any discrepancies re-
 ported. At the service node, the data can be looped back by the LAT
 protocol, or internally or externally at the service port. This fea-
 ture is supported by the DECserver 500 series service nodes; VAX/VMS
 service nodes do not support this service loopback capability.

 The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These in-
 clude: Ethernet data link statistics, LAT protocol statistics, and port
 error statistics. This data can be displayed and zeroed by the server
 manager. Server parameters that can be modified and displayed include:
 the server identification, circuit timer, session limits, and login
 limits.

 Remote Server Management

 The DECserver 500/550 software implements the Maintenance Operations
 Protocol (MOP) console carrier protocol, which enables access to the
 DECserver 500 series server from a Phase IV DECnet host on the same
 LAN. The entire local mode user interface is accessible to the remote
 management port user. This includes the privileged commands if the user
 knows the server's privileged password. This capability allows cen-
 tralized server management and remote server diagnosis.

 Communications

 DECserver 500/550 software is exclusively designed to run on DECserver
 500 series hardware that includes an Ethernet interface for connec-
 tion to an Ethernet transceiver cable.

 The CXY08 hardware option has eight EIA RS-232-C/CCITT V.24 asynchronous
 line interfaces for connecting terminals to the unit.

 The CXB16 hardware option has 16 EIA-422 asynchronous line interfaces
 for connecting terminals to the unit.

 The CXA16 hardware option has 16 DECconnect connections (EIA-423-A)
 for connecting terminals to the unit.

                                 15

 

 The CXM04 hardware option has eight coax A 3270 synchronous line in-
 terfaces for connecting 3270 CUT mode devices and Cluster Controllers.

 Using the CXY08 hardware option, each port can be set up by the server
 manager to operate using full-duplex modem control. The CXY08 hard-
 ware option is compatible with the Digital family of modems and with
 Bell 100 and 200 series modems and their equivalents. A BREAK feature
 is available and can be set on a per-port basis. This allows a BREAK
 condition to be passed through from a terminal connected on the server
 to the non-LAT host connected to a port on a DECserver 500 series server.

 DECserver 500 Series Server Operation

 The DECserver 500 series server provides the necessary Maintenance Op-
 eration Protocol boot ROM support for downline loading DECserver 500
 /550 software from a Phase IV DECnet load host over the Ethernet into
 server memory and also for upline dumping. All self-test diagnostics
 are in DECserver ROM; downline loading is not a precondition for DEC-
 server self-test. In the event of a bugcheck caused by a fatal error,
 the unit will normally attempt to upline dump server memory to a DEC-
 net Phase IV host. Following this, the unit will automatically ini-
 tialize itself and invoke a downline load.

 DECserver 500 Series Server Configuration and Performance

 The process of configuring the DECserver 500 series server is based
 primarily on tradeoffs of cost and performance within the realm of sat-
 isfying user application requirements. Network applications will range
 from low-speed, low-cost situations (e.g., connecting remote termi-
 nals through low-speed modems), to those of relatively high perfor-
 mance (e.g., connecting high-speed local terminals to local hosts within
 a LAN or connecting to non-LAT systems). The performance of a given
 server is a function of the expected network traffic, the load on hosts
 to which terminals are connected, and resultant processing pursuant
 to the dedicated function of the unit. Thus performance depends on sev-
 eral factors:

 o  Number of terminals

 o  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

                                 16

 

 o  Number of active connections to non-LAT hosts

 o  Terminal speeds

 o  Terminal user applications

 o  Number and size of host buffers

 o  Terminal workload

 The DECserver 500 series server can sustain an aggregate user-data out-
 put throughput (from server to port devices) of 173,000 characters per
 second using a 10 millisecond circuit timer. The DECserver can sus-
 tain an aggregate user-data input throughput (port device to server)
 of 16,500 characters per second using an 80 millisecond circuit timer.

 In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a Digi-
 tal software specialist should perform a level of application anal-
 ysis that addresses the factors above. The actual maximum data through-
 put cannot be calculated by multiplying the number of lines by the line
 speed since many factors already discussed in this section may reduce
 the actual throughput.

 Restrictions on DECserver 500 Series Server Usage

 While terminal connections using the DECserver 500 series terminal servers
 have been designed to simulate direct terminal connections as much as
 possible, a few differences necessarily exist because of the nature
 of the product. Under most circumstances, these differences are not
 noticed by terminal users or service node application programs. How-
 ever, applications which are directly dependent on the following func-
 tions may not operate as with a direct connection.

 o  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal speed,
    character size, and parity by manipulating system data structures

 o  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time (typ-
    ically less than 200 ms) to operate

 o  Applications that use an alternate terminal driver in the service
    node

                                 17

 

 o  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed device
    names or to obtain information about the name of the server and/or
    port

 Applications that depend on certain physical device response times or
 do their own modem signal handling are not supported.

 There are two restrictions that should be noted; for connections from
 the server, the LAT device created has an unpredictable name, and for
 host initiated connections, application programming will not be sup-
 ported.

 The DECserver 500 terminal server does not support the CXM04 commu-
 nications option card.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as specified in
 the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.97.04-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

 VMS Operating System

 *  Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
    versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 26.97.04-x).

 Refer to the following Software Product Descriptions (SPDs) for in-
 formation on other supported DECserver 500 series servers for RSX-11M-PLUS
 and Micro/RSX (SPD 18.53.xx), and ULTRIX (SPD 33.54.xx).

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-03KA9-AA
 Software Media: QA-03KAA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-03KAA-GZ
 Software Product Services QT-03KA*-**
 LAT Network Concept Guide AA-LD84B-TK


                                 18

 

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The DECserver 500 software license applies to the DECserver 500/550
 series servers on which the software runs, not the service host node
 CPU in the network.

 This product does not provide support for the VMS License Management
 Facility. A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not required for in-
 stallation or use of this version of the product.

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Terms and Conditions. For more information about
 Digital's terms and policies, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 [R] IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
    chines Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, DECconnect, DECnet, DECserver, Digital,
    LAT, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXserver,
    VAXstation, VMS, and VT are trademarks of Digital Equipment
    Corporation.

 ©1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All Rights Reserved.



                                 19
 

 System
 Support
 Addendum

 ___________________________________________________________________
 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 500/550 for VMS, Version 2.2           SSA
 26.97.04-A

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Alpha AXP Processors Supported:

 Alpha:  DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Workstation,
         DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Server,
         DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Workstation,
         DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Server

         DEC 4000 Model 610 AXP System

         DEC 7000 Model 610 AXP System

         DEC 10000 Model 610 AXP System

 VAX Processors Supported:

 VAX:    VAXft Model 110,
         VAXft Model 310,
         VAXft Model 410,
         VAXft Model 610,
         VAXft Model 612,
         VAXft Model 810

         VAX 4000 Model 100,
         VAX 4000 Model 200,
         VAX 4000 Model 300,
         VAX 4000 Model 400,

                               DIGITAL                 November 1993

                                                         

 


         VAX 4000 Model 500,
         VAX 4000 Model 600

         VAX 6000 Model 200 Series,
         VAX 6000 Model 300 Series,
         VAX 6000 Model 400 Series,
         VAX 6000 Model 500 Series,
         VAX 6000 Model 600 Series

         VAX 7000 Model 600 Series

         VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300, VAX 8350,
         VAX 8500, VAX 8530, VAX 8550, VAX 8600,
         VAX 8650, VAX 8700, VAX 8800, VAX 8810,
         VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

         VAX 9000 Model 110,
         VAX 9000 Model 210,
         VAX 9000 Model 300 Series,
         VAX 9000 Model 400 Series

         VAX 10000 Model 600 Series

         VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750,
         VAX-11/780, VAX-11/782, VAX-11/785

 MicroVAX:MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000,
         MicroVAX 3100 Model 10/10E,
         MicroVAX 3100 Model 20/20E,
         MicroVAX 3100 Model 30,
         MicroVAX 3100 Model 40,
         MicroVAX 3100 Model 80,
         MicroVAX 3100 Model 90,
         MicroVAX 3300, MicroVAX 3400,





                                  2

 


         MicroVAX 3500, MicroVAX 3600,
         MicroVAX 3800, MicroVAX 3900

 VAXstatiVAXstation II, VAXstation 2000 Series,
         VAXstation 3100 Series, VAXstation 3200,
         VAXstation 3500, VAXstation 3520,
         VAXstation 3540, VAXstation 4000

 VAXserveVAXserver 3100 Series,
         VAXserver 3300, VAXserver 3400,
         VAXserver 3500, VAXserver 3520,
         VAXserver 3540, VAXserver 3600,
         VAXserver 3602, VAXserver 3800,
         VAXserver 3900

         VAXserver 4000 series

         VAXserver 6000-210, VAXserver 6000-220,
         VAXserver 6000-310, VAXserver 6000-320,
         VAXserver 6000-410, VAXserver 6000-420,
         VAXserver 6000-510, VAXserver 6000-520,
         VAXserver 6000-610, VAXserver 6000-620,
         VAXserver 6000-630

 Processors Not Supported:

         MicroVAX I, VAXstation I, VAX-11/725, VAXstation 8000

 Processor Restrictions:

 A TK50 Tape Drive is required for standalone MicroVAX 2000 and VAXs-
 tation 2000 systems.

 The DECserver 500/550 software runs on any of the following packaged
 hardware options:

 o  DSRVS-**


                                  3

 

 o  DSRVN-**

 o  DSRVM-**

 ** Denotes product variant models. For additional information, refer
    to the appropriate price book.

 A maximum of eight line cards and two standby cards, in any combina-
 tion, may be configured and shipped in a DECserver 500 series server
 unit. DECserver 500 series line cards are ordered separately for the
 above hardware units. The supported line card types are:

 o  CXA16-AA - 16-line EIA-423-A asynchronous multiplexer with single
    port speeds to 38.4K bps under specified application conditions,
    full-duplex. Uses EIA-423-A cables.

 o  CXY08-AA - 8-line RS-232 asynchronous multiplexer with single port
    speeds to 38.4K bps under specified application conditions, full-
    duplex.

 o  CXB16-AA - 16-line EIA-422 asynchronous multiplexer with single port
    speeds to 38.4K bps under specified application conditions, full-
    duplex.

 o  CXM04-AA - 8-line coax A 3270 synchronous line card. Supported only
    on the DECserver 510 and DECserver 550 terminal servers. Requires
    the 3270 Terminal Option Software. Refer to the Software Product
    Description (SPD 25.G5.xx) for more information.

 The above modules (except the CXM04-**) come with the 2 BCXXX cables
 that, depending on your desired connection, can be attached to the fol-
 lowing:

 Use the following SHIELDED cables with each of the physical lines de-
 pending on the connection required beyond the cable concentrator:

 BC22D       Null modem cable for local terminal or printer connec-
             tions


                                  4

 


 BC22E       Full modem straight through cable for modem connec-
             tions

 BC22F       Full modem straight through cable for modem connec-
             tions

 BC22R       Recommended null modem cable for host systems and
             other devices, including those that use CTS/RTS flow
             control

 BC17D       Null modem cable for host systems and other devices
             that do not use CTS/RTS flow control

 Use DECconnect cables with the CXA16 option beyond the cable concen-
 trator unit.

 The DECserver 500 series hardware requires both a transceiver drop ca-
 ble and either an Ethernet transceiver (H4000 for baseband or DECOM
 for broadband) or the Local Network Interconnect (DELNI) to connect
 to the Ethernet physical channel.

 OPTIONAL HARDWARE

 Terminals Supported

 The DECserver 500/550 software supports the following Digital termi-
 nal devices that have keyboards:

 o  LA12, LA34, LA35, LA36, LA38

 o  All VTxxx terminals

 Supported terminal parameters are:

 o  Character size: 7 or 8 bits per character

 o  Parity: Even, Odd, or None


                                  5

 

 The automatic line speed detection (Autobaud) feature is supported for
 either seven-bit characters with even parity or eight-bit characters
 with no parity.

 The DECserver 500/550 software also supports Digital Asian terminal
 device variants when accessed from VMS/Hanzi systems. Refer to the VMS
 /Hanzi SPD for a complete listing of supported devices.

 The DECserver 500/550 software also supports Digital Asian terminal
 device variants when accessed from VMS/Japanese systems. Refer to the
 VMS/Japanese SPD for a complete listing of supported devices.

 The DECserver 500/550 software also supports the following Digital Per-
 sonal Computers (PCs) in both terminal emulation mode and file trans-
 fer mode:

 o  Professional 325, 350, 380

 o  Rainbow 100A, 100B, 100+, 190

 o  DECmate II

 o  DECmate III

















                                  6

 

 o  VAXmate

 o  DECstation

 Note: This product is NOT WARRANTED to support non-Digital terminal
 devices or personal computers. However, terminals supporting VT100 or
 VT200-like characteristics and personal computers supporting IBM[R]
 PC[TM], IBM PC/XT[TM], and IBM PC/AT[TM] characteristics may operate
 with this product.

 For supported 3270 type terminals on the CXM04 option card, refer to
 the 3270 Terminal Option Software Product Description (SPD 25.G5.xx).

 Printers Supported

 The DECserver 500/550 software supports the following Digital asyn-
 chronous printers when accessed from VMS systems:

 o  All LJ, LA, LQP, LXY, LN0, LG, and DTC printing devices.

 The DECserver 500/550 software also supports Digital Asian printer de-
 vice variants when accessed from VMS/Hanzi systems. Refer to the VMS
 /Hanzi SPD for a complete listing of supported devices.

 The DECserver 500/550 software also supports Digital Asian printer de-
 vice variants when accessed from VMS/Japanese systems. Refer to the
 VMS/Japanese SPD for a complete listing of supported devices.

 Modems Supported

 For a DECserver 500/550 series server with the CXY08 hardware option:

 o  DF03, DF112, DF124, DF224, DF242, DFM X.29 pad, and DECmodem V32
    full-duplex asynchronous modems for either dial-in or dial-out use.
    Also supported are private or leased line modem applications, how-
    ever, connections to data switches are NOT WARRANTED but may op-
    erate with this product.



                                  7

 

 For a DECserver 500/550 series server without the CXY08 hardware op-
 tion:

 o  None

 Block Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size= 1)

 Disk space required for    1300 blocks
 installation:
                            (665.6 KB)

 Disk space required for    1200 blocks
 use (permanent):
                            (614.4 KB)

 These counts refer to the disk space required on the downline load host
 system disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depend-
 ing on the user's system environment, configuration, and software op-
 tions.

 The following add-on communications option card variants can be or-
 dered and installed after the initial DECserver 500 series server in-
 stallation.

 o  CXA16-AF - 16-line EIA-423-A asynchronous multiplexer with single
    port speeds to 38.4K bps under specified application conditions,
    full-duplex. Uses EIA-423-A cables.

 o  CXY08-AF - 8-line RS-232 asynchronous multiplexer with single port
    speeds to 38.4K bps under specified application conditions, full-
    duplex.

 o  CXB16-AF - 16-line EIA-422 asynchronous multiplexer with single port
    speeds up to 38.4K bps under specified application conditions, full-
    duplex.

 o  CXM04-AF - 8-line coax A 3270 synchronous line card. Supported only
    on the DECserver 510 and DECserver 550 terminal servers.

 DECserver 500 users who wish to increase their session limit can or-
 der a DSRVS-UA upgrade package that consists of a KDJ11-SD processor
 line card and its associated installation guide.

                                  8

 

 CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

 This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
 and licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions. The HARD-
 WARE REQUIREMENTS sections of this product's Software Product Descrip-
 tion and System Support Addendum detail any special hardware required
 by this product.

 *  V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXclus-
    ter Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Eth-
    ernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  VMS Operating System V5.0 - V6.0

 o  OpenVMS V1.5

 o  DECnet-VAX V5.0 - V6.0





















                                  9

 

 OpenVMS Tailoring

 For OpenVMS V5.x and V6.0 systems, the following OpenVMS classes are
 required for full functionality of this layered product:

 o  OpenVMS Required Saveset

 o  Network Support

 o  Utilities

 For more information on OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 o  Terminal Server Manager V2.0

 o  3270 Terminal Option Software V1.1

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.

 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 TK50 Streaming Tape, 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape (PE)

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software License: QL-03KA9-AA
 Software Media: QA-03KAA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-03KAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-03KA*-**
 LAT Networks Concept Guide: AA-LD84B-TK



                                 10

 

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
 local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

 [R] IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
    chines Corporation.

 [TM]IBM PC, IBM PC/AT, and IBM PC/XT are trademarks of Interna-
    tional Business Machines Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, Alpha AXP, AXP, CI, DECconnect, DECmate,
    DECmodem, DECnet-VAX, DECOM, DECserver, DECstation, DELNI,
    Digital, LAT, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, TK, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft,
    VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, and VT are trademarks of
    Digital Equipment Corporation.

 ©1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All Rights Reserved.





















                                 11
