 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4        SPD 25.D9.01

     DESCRIPTION

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER is a bounded, non-customizable, menu-oriented
     software product that provides the user with the ability to
     create, send, and receive electronic mail and to create, edit,
     and print word processing documents.

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER consists of:

     o  Electronic Messaging and Word Processing

     o  Optionally installable WPS-PLUS

     o  ALL-IN-1 PC Server for VMS (license only)

     o  Message Router VMS Gateway (includes both the Message Router
        and the Gateway to VMS Personal Mail Utility)

     o  VAX FMS (includes both FMS and Forms Language Translator)

     o  CDA Converter Library for VMS (required for use with CDA
        Support)

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER provides an environment in which users access
     all of its functions in a consistent manner. Users' documents
     are stored in folders in the users' file cabinets where they are
     accessed from the word processing (create and edit messages) and
     electronic messaging (send and receive) functions.

     Compatibility with ALL-IN-1

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER is a true subset of ALL-IN-1 V2.4. ALL-IN-1
     V2.4 provides additional functionality such as customization,
     time management, and application integration/development. Within

                                  DIGITAL               November 1990

                                                          AE-MT88B-TE

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     the limits of this subset, ALL-IN-1 STARTER is fully compati-
     ble with ALL-IN-1 (i.e., all data and training experience are
     transferable from one product to the other). ALL-IN-1 STARTER
     provides for ease in upgrading to ALL-IN-1. This upgrade does
     not require data conversion, but may require additional hardware
     and software resources to use the additional functionality of
     ALL-IN-1.

     There is a restriction that ALL-IN-1 STARTER cannot be run on
     the same system node as ALL-IN-1.

     Office Applications

     Document Processing

     The Document Processing application enables users to create,
     edit, print, delete and read documents. The editor used is de-
     pendent on the user's preference indicated in the User Profile.
     Three choices of editing styles are provided: EDT, WPS, and
     WPS-PLUS.

     The optionally installable WPS-PLUS for ALL-IN-1 STARTER is
     Digital's full function word processor. Highlights of WPS-PLUS
     features are:

     o  Insert or Overstrike Mode

     o  User control of margins and tabs, including left-justified,
        right-justified, and decimal-aligned tabs

     o  Automatic Centering, Underlining, Bolding, Double Underscor-
        ing, Change Bars and Redlining

     o  Technical Characters and Scientific Equations editing

     o  Support for Wide Documents up to 256 characters

     o  Numbered Footnotes, Paragraph Numbering to nine levels,
        Automatic Table of Contents generation, Table of Authorities,
        and Word Indexing

     o  Widow/Orphan control and No-break Blocks

                                     2

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     o  Column Cut and Paste

     o  List Processing and Sort to produce form letters and maintain
        mailing lists

     o  Abbreviation and Library documents

     o  Two-dimensional Editor for creation of diagrams and equations

     Electronic Messaging

     The Electronic Messaging application provides a means of ex-
     changing messages with other users. The user can create, edit,
     print, delete, read, file and send messages. The "envelope" or
     message header (which contains addressee(s), subject and mail
     classification) and the text of the message may be edited.

     When creating a message, the user specifies the addressee(s) to
     whom the message is to be sent and, optionally, any addressee(s)
     to receive copies of the message. To save time with addressing,
     the user can create distribution lists or nicknames (seen only
     by user). Incoming messages can be forwarded and/or answered.
     Answers may be directed to the sender only, or to all the re-
     cipients of the message. Confirmation that the addressee(s) has
     received and/or read the message can be requested. Priority for
     delivery of the message may be assigned as Express, First Class,
     or Second Class. The user can specify that the sending of a
     message be deferred to a time chosen by the user.

     Messages appear and are treated as documents to the user. ALL-
     IN-1 STARTER maintains folders for incoming, read, created
     and sent messages. Once a message is sent, one copy of that
     message is shared (per system or cluster node) by the sender and
     receiver(s) and cannot be edited. Messages may be re-filed and
     cross-filed in the user's file cabinet. Documents already in the
     file cabinet can be sent to other users.

     The user can choose to have all incoming messages automatically
     forwarded to another user. Additionally, the user can create
     a reply message that is sent in response to all incoming mail,
     (for example, "I am out of the office until..").

                                     3

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     Two styles of user interface are provided. One interface uses
     menus similar to other ALL-IN-1 STARTER applications, and the
     other interface (hard-copy mode) is utilized, for efficiency,
     mainly over dial-up lines. This mode does not display the full
     screen menu, but displays the menu in a strip form.

     Exchange of messages with ALL-IN-1 STARTER users and ALL-IN-
     1 users on other systems in a DECnet network is provided by
     Message Router for VMS. Message Router VMSmail Gateway allows
     ALL-IN-1 STARTER users to exchange messages with users of the
     VMS Personal Mail Utility. Refer to the VAX Message Router
     Software Product Description (SPD 26.33.xx).

     File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

     The ALL-IN-1 STARTER File Cabinet is similar in function to
     a standard office filing cabinet - documents are contained
     within folders. Folders are in alphabetical order and documents
     within the folders are in order by date and time of creation.
     The latest document is listed first, except for the INBOX where
     the latest document is listed last.

     Documents are grouped together in user-specified folders.
     Information (such as title, date created, document number,
     author, keywords and type) associated with each document is
     maintained in the filing cabinet. When a document has multiple
     cross-filings, only one copy of the document body is stored.

     Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket folder
     until the Wastebasket is emptied.

     A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of documents
     or contents of the user's screen may be temporarily placed.
     Contents of the scratch pad can be inserted into a document,
     edited, printed, mailed or read.

     The File Cabinet provides access to documents through a common
     mechanism regardless of the format of the documents. Support is
     provided as standard for ASCII, DX and WPS-PLUS formats.

                                     4

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and manage the
     contents of their filing cabinet. The user can print or delete
     more than one document at a time. Selection of the documents can
     be made with specified criteria.

     Documents (individual or by folder) can be re-filed, cross-filed
     or duplicated. Information such as title and associated keywords
     can be changed.

     Facilities are provided to transfer files from a DECmate II,
     DECmate III, and VMS into or out of the user's file cabinet.

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER provides a feature that allows the user and
     system manager to archive/restore any ALL-IN-1 STARTER document
     from the shared areas or from a user's file cabinet.

     Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Support

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER provides support for the following new data
     types:

     DDIF      -    the standard CDA encoding format

     DOTS      -    the format for packing and transferring composite
                    CDA documents

     DTIF      -    the CDA encoding format for tables

     PS        -    PostScript[R] the final form document format

     Users will be able to send and receive these document types in
     mail, store them in their filing cabinet, read, print, copy and
     convert them.

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER allows the new datatypes to be read with the
     exception of PostScript. The quality of formatting of the dis-
     played data depends on the CDA facilities provided by the un-
     derlying VMS system. For VMS V5.1 and V5.2, ALL-IN-1 STARTER
     uses the RMS text extension mechanism which produces minimally
     formatted text. This method ignores external references from

                                     5

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     DDIF documents and only shows the main document. For VMS V5.3,
     ALL-IN-1 STARTER uses the CDA character cell formatter which
     gives improved results with correct formatting and the inclusion
     of externally referenced files. ALL-IN-1 STARTER automatically
     uses the appropriate mechanism depending on the underlying VMS
     version.

     Note: Upgrading to VMS V5.3 requires that ALL-IN-1 STARTER be
     re-linked to pick up the new CDA functionality.

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER will attempt to print CDA documents in
     PostScript if the destination printer is capable; otherwise,
     ALL-IN-1 STARTER will convert the document to text before print-
     ing.

     The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to/from the
     new datatypes.

     If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a standard
     editor, the normal handling will result in a message telling the
     user that the document format is not supported by the editor.
     However, the user may convert a CDA document into a suitable
     format for editing and then use the appropriate editor. Through
     conversion, there is a potential for formatting attributes to be
     lost.

     Directories

     The Directories Subsystem provides access and maintenance to
     directories available to the user. The user can view a direc-
     tory, maintained by the system manager, that contains telephone
     numbers and addresses. A directory of all the ALL-IN-1 STARTER
     users may also be viewed.

     Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and view a
     personal telephone directory, nicknames and distribution lists.

     System Wide Features

     Menu Navigation

                                     6

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus. Experi-
     enced users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

     The user can interrupt their current activity to read a new mail
     message, display the current time, or to access Directories or
     Scratch Pad.

     Users familiar with VMS commands may have direct access to them
     without leaving ALL-IN-1 STARTER.

     Help

     Users can invoke Help for any part of ALL-IN-1 STARTER by press-
     ing the HELP key. The HELP facility provides basic information
     on the function in question without the user having to reference
     the documentation.

     On-line Training

     Users can learn how to use the system using the on-line Training
     Facilities. Training leads the user through sets of interac-
     tive screens and explains how the various features of ALL-IN-1
     STARTER work.

     User-Defined Process

     User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated key
     sequences. There is no limit to the number of UDPs or the number
     of keystrokes you can store in a UDP. One UDP can invoke another
     UDP.

     Printing

     The Printing facility provides the user with the ability to
     specify where a document is to be printed, the number of copies,
     and the output format. The output can be directed to any of the
     printers available to ALL-IN-1 STARTER users, another document,
     or to the user's terminal. Documents that specify Runoff han-
     dling are automatically processed by Digital Standard Runoff
     (DSR) before output. Printing is handled in the background and

                                     7

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     frees the terminal for other actions when interaction with the
     print formatter is not needed.

     Job Services

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER provides users the ability to perform opera-
     tions on their jobs in print, batch, and server queues. Using
     the multiple select indexing capability, users can get informa-
     tion on jobs, delete jobs, edit their attributes, and restart
     currently executing jobs.

     Profile

     Each ALL-IN-1 STARTER user has a User Profile which contains
     information pertaining to that user.

     The user can access and modify part of their User Profile,
     including, full name, address, telephone number, department
     and title. In addition, user preference information (such as
     editing style, mail notification, and read receipt handling) can
     be modified.

     The System Manager maintains information such as user privileges
     and default directory.

     Index Select

     A user can create an index selection list by selecting or de-
     selecting objects from the index. Operations (such as print,
     delete, crossfile, and so forth) can be on the list as if they
     were a single entity. An index menu lists the options available
     to the current selected index. Within an index, a user can
     scroll either forward or backward.






                                     8

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     Customization

     FMS is provided for users to customize their memo boilerplates.
     This is the only user customization that is supported. Soft-
     ware Services should be contacted if further modifications are
     required. Digital does not support any ALL-IN-1 STARTER system
     that has been customized by anyone other than Software Services,
     nor does it support the upgrade to full ALL-IN-1 from any such
     system.

     International

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER supports multi-lingual operations. This sup-
     port is subject to availability of the specific translations.
     Refer to System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D9.01-x). ALL-IN-1
     STARTER can be deployed in a multi-lingual network and can sup-
     port multi-lingual operations on a single system. However, all
     language kits, including U.S. English, must be the same version
     when installed on a single node.

     System Management

     The System Management utilities are used to perform rou-
     tine maintenance of ALL-IN-1 STARTER such as, scheduling and
     rescheduling of housekeeping procedures management of printers,
     direct maintenance of network and DDS profiles, metering, and
     quota management of the shared area.

     A system manager has the option of creating a non-VMS privileged
     system administrator for the purposes of administering the
     management of: user accounts (create, delete, move, rename),
     document archiving, system distribution lists, scheduling of
     housekeeping tasks, monitoring of ALL-IN-1 STARTER exception
     and information reports, and the initiation of ALL-IN-1 STARTER
     shutdown.

     Server for ALL-IN-1 STARTER Clients


                                     9

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     ALL-IN-1 STARTER provides server support for PCs by implementing
     client/server technology. The license for ALL-IN-1 STARTER
     allows usage of the ALL-IN-1 PC Server for VMS. The Media Kit
     must be ordered separately. For more details on the capabilities
     of the server and available clients, refer to the ALL-IN-1 PC
     Server for VMS Software Product Description (SPD 31.71.xx).

     IBM[R] 3270 Terminal Support

     ALL-IN-1 can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards on CUT
     mode terminals which are supported using the CMX04 option card
     in a DECserver 550:

        122 Key Typewriter (native mode)
        122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)
        102 Key Typewriter
        87 Key Typewriter

     The ALL-IN-1 Kit contains a 3270 keyboard Quick Reference Card
     showing the ALL-IN-1 functions.

     Documentation

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER has the following standard documentation:

     Read Me First

     System Management Guides:

        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Release Notes
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Installation Guide
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Differences Between ALL-IN-1 V2.3 and ALL-
        IN-1 STARTER V2.4
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Administration Guide
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Modifying Printer Tables
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Management Guide
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Mail Management Guide
        CDA Converter Library Documentation Set
        Message Router Documentation Set
        VMSmail Gateway Documentation Set

                                    10

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



        VAX FMS V2.4 Installation Guide

     User's Reference Guides:

        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Getting Started
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER User's Reference
        ALL-IN-1 STARTER Quick Lookup
        WPS-PLUS Editor Functions
        WPS-PLUS List and Sort Processing
        WPS-PLUS Quick Lookup

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER VT100 Keyboard Cards

     IBM 3270 Keyboard Quick Reference Card for ALL-IN-1 Functions

     ALL-IN-1 STARTER LK201 Keyboard Cards

     Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased separately.

     INSTALLATION

     Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this
     product. Digital recommends that all other customers purchase
     Digital's Installation Services. These services provide for
     installation of the software product by an experienced Digital
     Software Specialist

     For more information on additional service offerings, refer to
     the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D9.01-x).

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the
     System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D9.01-x).





                                    11

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

     o  VMS Operating System (DECwindows needs to be installed for
        CDA support.)

     o  DECnet-VAX is required for Multi-Node support.

     o  VAX FMS (included with the ALL-IN-1 STARTER Kit)

     o  CDA Converter Library for VMS (included with the ALL-IN-1
        STARTER Kit - required for CDA support)

     Note: ALL-IN-1 and ALL-IN-1 STARTER cannot coexist on the same
     system node.

     *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D9.01-x) for
        availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
        software.

     Country Component Software

     For information on country-specific modifications to this prod-
     uct, refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D9.01-x).

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software Licenses: QL-VNN**-**
     Software Media: QA-VNN**-**
     Software Documentation: QA-VNN**-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-VNN**-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

                                    12

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01



     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity. License units for this product are allocated on either a
     CPU-capacity or User basis.

     In addition, ALL-IN-1 STARTER provides a Personal Licensing
     Reporting Tool. System managers and administrators can easily
     recognize when the authorized (purchased) personal license limit
     has been reached or exceeded.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the VMS Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of services and options are available from Digital.
     For more information, contact your local Digital office.

     Note: The availability of these software product options and
     service may vary by country. Customers should contact their
     local Digital office for information or availability.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

     [R]  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business
          Machines Corporation.


                                    13

 


     ALL-IN-1 STARTER, Version 2.4                       SPD 25.D9.01




     [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, DEC, DECmate, DECnet, DECnet-
          VAX, DECtalk, DECwrite, DECserver, DECstation, DDIF, DX,
          EDT, LA50, LA75, LJ250, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LN03R, LQP02,
          LQP03, MicroVAX, Professional, Rainbow, VAX, VAX FMS, VAXs-
          tation, VAXserver, VMS, VT, WPS and WPS-PLUS are trademarks
          of Digital Equipment Corporation.
































                                    14
