 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC SNA Domain Gateway                  SPD 38.69.00
                for Channel Transport (CT), Version 1.0

 DESCRIPTION

 The DEC SNA Domain Gateway for Channel Transport (Domain Gateway) is
 a member of Digital's family of DEC SNA network transport products.
 This family consists of hardware and software products that connect
 suitably configured Digital networked systems and IBM® systems in an
 Systems Network Architecture (SNA) environment. When used with appro-
 priate OpenVMS[*], ULTRIX, and MS-DOS® access routines, users can ex-
 change information and share resources between Digital and IBM net-
 worked systems.

 The Domain Gateway is managed and configured using the management soft-
 ware that is part of the Domain Gateway product. For additional in-
 formation on the various access routines and their capabilities, please
 consult the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section of the System Support Addendum
 (SSA 38.69.00-x).

 The Domain Gateway is part of both the DECnet and the SNA networks.
 Architecturally, it is a DECnet Phase V end node to DECnet and a Phys-
 ical Unit Type 5 (PU T5) node to SNA. The Domain Gateway appears to
 the SNA network as an SNA Domain that contains one subarea. It pro-
 vides bi-directional access between DECnet and SNA networks.

 The DEC SNA Domain Gateway software is supported on two hardware plat-
 forms - the DEC ChannelServer (DESNA-Ax) and DEC ChannelServer II (DESNB-
 Ax). Both systems connect directly to an Ethernet Local Area Network
 (LAN) and an IBM S/370 Block Multiplexer channel with a single set of
 Bus and Tag connectors, and can transmit and receive data over a high
 bandwidth data link. When used with the Domain Gateway, they provide

 ____________________

 The   terms OpenVMS and VMS refer to the OpenVMS operating system.

                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-PN5UA-TE

 

 SNA connectivity to any Phase IV [or Phase V] DECnet system in the DEC-
 net network. This product can be used in networks currently using other
 DECnet/SNA Gateway systems and can share access routines, Ethernet LANs,
 and load host resources with those systems.

 The Domain Gateway supports a single Physical Unit (PU) with its own
 System Services Control Point (SSCP) and a single Transmission Group
 (TG). The Gateway supports up to 16 explicit routes for each desti-
 nation subarea in the SNA network, supports IBM Class of Service ca-
 pability, and allows up to 8 virtual routes (each of which can have
 3 priority levels) for each explicit route.

 The Domain Gateway supports up to 1024 Logical Units (LUs), each of
 which can have multiple sessions. The gateway supports a maximum of
 1020 concurrent LU-LU sessions.

 Because the Domain Gateway is a PU T5 implementation, it enables DEC-
 net/OSI-based applications to be either Primary Logical Units (PLUs)
 or Secondary Logical Units (SLUs) when communicating with IBM appli-
 cations and peripheral devices. This means that suitably configured
 Digital-based applications can be interactively accessed from IBM SNA
 networked 3270 devices and PCs.

 Features

 o  SNA Physical Unit Type 5 (PU T5) implementation

 o  Supports 1020 sessions

 o  Multiple session support for each LU

 o  Block multiplexer Channel attached to IBM mainframe for high through-
    put

 o  Supports applications acting as either Primary (PLU) or Secondary
    (SLU) Logical Units

 o  Provides access to OpenVMS applications from SNA 3270 devices and
    PCs

 o  Implements IBM Class of Service support

                                  2

 

 o  Supports SNA Explicit Routes, Virtual Routes, and Priority Levels

 o  Supports wide variety of access routines

 o  Supports IBM MVS, VM, and VSE systems

 o  Gateway Configuration Utility simplifies installation/configuration

 o  Gateway Management Utilities simplify management and troubleshoot-
    ing

 o  Upward compatible with DECnet/SNA Gateway for Channel Transport

 o  SNA initiated outbound session support

 o  DECnet Phase V end node implementation

 o  Accessible from any DECnet Phase IV or Phase V DECnet node

 Loading DECnet/SNA Gateway-CT Software

 The Domain Gateway software is down-line loaded into the DEC ChannelServer
 or DEC ChannelServer II system over the Ethernet Local Area Network
 from an OpenVMS system acting as DECnet load host system. Most OpenVMS-
 based VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver, or VAXstation systems can be used as
 Domain Gateway load hosts. The System Support Addendum (SSA 38.69.00-
 x) describes valid configurations.

 Other DECnet systems requiring access to the SNA environment through
 the DEC ChannelServer or DEC ChannelServer II, should be configured
 with the appropriate DECnet/SNA access routine(s).

 The Domain Gateway appears to the SNA network as an IBM 3088 Channel-
 to-Channel Adapter (CTCA) and system programmers configure the IBM chan-
 nel address as a 3088 device according to specifications listed in both
 the hardware and software user documentation.

 Components

 The DEC SNA Domain Gateway for Channel Transport software includes two
 software components: the Gateway Load Host software (with its config-
 uration utility), and the Gateway Management software.

 Gateway Load Host Software

                                  3

 

 The Gateway load host software includes the system image that is down-
 line loaded to the DEC ChannelServer hardware and the configuration
 utility that provides a convenient method for configuring the Gate-
 way.

 Configuration Utility

 The Configuration Utility allows Gateway managers to save answers and
 to modify discrete parts of the configuration. The Configuration Util-
 ity can also read path definition files created by IBM network def-
 inition utilities and use that information in the Gateway configura-
 tion.

 Because the Domain Gateway supports multiple sessions per LU, the Gate-
 way manager can configure a single LU for those access routines which
 support multiple sessions, thus reducing configuration time.

 Gateway Management

 The Domain Gateway Management software, which is part of the Domain
 Gateway product, includes DECnet-style network management tools for
 configuring, controlling, monitoring, and troubleshooting the Domain
 Gateway. The Gateway manager can set up or modify parameters relat-
 ing to routes, physical units, logical units, and other key variables
 necessary for network-to-network communications between the DECnet and
 SNA networks. Additionally, the Domain Gateway Management software al-
 lows the manager to diagnose and solve most problems related to the
 Domain Gateway.

 Although all management for the Domain Gateway is from a Gateway man-
 agement node in the DECnet network, management of the Domain Gateway
 is conceptually part of the IBM SNA network, and the management of the
 routes and the channel connecting the Domain Gateway to the IBM net-
 work is the joint responsibility of the IBM system and network pro-
 grammer. (Refer to the Customer Responsibilities section of this Soft-
 ware Product Description.)




                                  4

 

 The Gateway Management software includes the NCL commands, a snapshot
 monitoring utility (SNAP), and the Common Trace Facility (CTF). The
 SNAP utility displays the status of the Domain Gateway's buffer avail-
 ability, the number of SNA sessions in progress, and information about
 the DECnet and SNA networks. The CTF utility helps debug application
 programs and assists in identifying system problems by capturing and
 analyzing multi-protocol data. It can be run at the Transmission Group,
 Virtual Route, Logical Unit, or session level.

 The Domain Gateway Management software resides on a Gateway load host
 system or, optionally, on additional nodes called Domain Gateway man-
 agement nodes. Most OpenVMS-based VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver, and VAXs-
 tation systems can serve as Domain Gateway management nodes. The Sys-
 tem Support Addendum (SSA 38.69.00-x) lists valid configurations.

 Gateway Access Routines

 OpenVMS, ULTRIX, or MS-DOS-based Digital access routines can use the
 Domain Gateway. The Domain Gateway supports Digital-supplied access
 routines as either Secondary or Primary Logical Units. For example,
 the DEC SNA 3270 Application Services DECforms access routine enables
 3270 terminals in an SNA network to connect to DECforms-based appli-
 cations on OpenVMS systems.

 The Domain Gateway operates in networks using other Digital Gateway
 systems. It can share access routines, Ethernet LANs, and load host
 resources with those Gateway systems.

 Compatibility with Digital's DECnet/SNA Gateways

 The Domain Gateway works with all of Digital's DECnet/SNA access rou-
 tines except the Distributed Host Command Facility (DHCF). The access
 routines are described in the Gateway Access Routines section of this
 SPD. The Domain Gateway does not have an RJE (Remote Job Entry) server.
 Rather, the DECnet/SNA Remote Job Entry access routine uses an OpenVMS-
 based RJE server. Also note that the previous management utilities,
 such as SNANCP, NCP, and NETTRACE are not applicable to the Domain Gate-
 way.


                                  5

 

 INSTALLATION

 In order for this product to be Digital warranted and supported, pur-
 chase of the Gateway Orientation/Installation Service in conjunction
 with the customer's first purchase of a Domain Gateway is REQUIRED.
 For further details, please refer to the SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES sec-
 tion of this SPD.

 Only customers experienced with Digital's IBM Interconnect products
 should attempt installation of second or subsequent Domain Gateways.
 Any Domain Gateway-CT installations performed by customers are REQUIRED
 to be CERTIFIED by Digital prior to customer purchase of Domain Gate-
 way DECsupport Service, BASIC Service, or Self-Maintenance Service.
 CERTIFICATION is performed by Digital software specialists. For in-
 stallations that conform to the Software Product Description and can-
 not be certified, the customer must purchase DECnet/SNA Gateway Ori-
 entation/Installation Service to be eligible for DECnet/SNA Gateway
 DECsupport Service, BASIC service, or Self-Maintenance Service.

 Customer Responsibilities

 Before installation of the software, the customer must do the follow-
 ing:

 o  Install all hardware, including terminals.

 o  Obtain, install, and show as operational any equipment and facil-
    ities necessary to interface to Digital's communication equipment.

 o  Generate, to Digital's satisfaction, any necessary IBM host soft-
    ware that communicates with the Domain Gateway.

 o  Complete Orientation and Installation Service requirements.

 o  Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed
    by Digital and the customer, all hardware, communication facili-
    ties, and terminals that are to be used during installation.

 o  Be prepared to work with both Digital and IBM systems personnel to
    coordinate the pre-installation activities.

                                  6

 

 o  Be prepared to modify IBM component generation parameters to sup-
    port the Domain Gateway.

 Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities will be
 charged at Digital's then prevailing rate for time and materials.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  An Ethernet Local Area Network that contains both the Domain Gate-
    way load host and the ChannelServer hardware

 o  A load host consisting of a VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver
    configuration as specified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 38.69.00)

 o  A DEC ChannelServer (DESNA-Ax) or DEC ChannelServer II (DESNB-Ax)

 o  IBM channel Bus and Tag cables (with terminators if appropriate)

 o  A VTxxx terminal for diagnostic use

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 An OpenVMS operating system environment consisting of the following:

 Operating Systems

 o  OpenVMS Operating System

 Layered Products

 o  DECnet-VAX Extensions

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 38.69.00-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.






                                  7

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software License:

    QL-MKHA9-AA

 Software Media: QA-MKHAA-**

    QA-MKHAB-**
    QA-MKHAC-**

 Software Documentation: QA-MKHAA-GZ

    QA-MKHAB-GZ
    QA-MKHAC-GZ

 Software Product Services:

    QT-MKH**-**

 

 *   Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
     able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
     price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 Customers need a separate license for each DEC ChannelServer or DEC
 ChannelServer II unit they load with the Domain Gateway software (ex-
 cept as otherwise specified by Digital). The DEC SNA Domain Gateway
 for Channel Transport license applies to the DEC ChannelServer or DEC
 ChannelServer II unit on which the software executes, not to the load
 host processor on which the software is configured.

 Domain Gateway management software is required on the Domain Gateway's
 load host. The license to use the Domain Gateway management software
 on the load host is included with the Domain Gateway for Channel Trans-
 port license.

                                  8

 

 The single Domain Gateway license agreement includes the right to in-
 stall and configure the product on a backup load host, in standby mode,
 for downline loading the Domain Gateway in case of a failure at the
 primary load host. This backup load host installation requires dupli-
 cate installation of the primary Product Access Key (PAK).

 Under the terms of the software license, the Domain Gateway manage-
 ment utilities which are included in this product (SNAP and the Com-
 mon Trace Facility (CTF) analysis routines) may be installed freely
 on alternate OpenVMS Gateway management nodes in addition to the load
 host. No Product Access Key (PAK) is necessary to install or execute
 the management utilities.

 This software is furnished under the licensing provision of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact the
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
 tem documentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 Domain Gateway Orientation and Installation Service

 The Domain Gateway Orientation/Installation Service is REQUIRED in con-
 junction with the customer's first purchase of a DEC SNA Domain Gate-
 way if the installation is to be warranted and supported by Digital.
 (Note: An Upgrade Service is available if upgrading from a DECnet/SNA
 Gateway for Channel Transport to the Domain Gateway.) The purpose of

                                  9

 

 this service is to insure that the installation of the Domain Gate-
 way is complete and that start-up problems are eliminated. It includes
 the following activities:

 o  Verify IBM and Digital hardware and software prerequisites.

 o  Coordinate customer MIS and Digital Software Services resources.

 o  Review IBM system generation parameters.

 o  Install the Domain Gateway and any load host resident OpenVMS Gate-
    way access routine software which has been ordered concurrently with
    the Domain Gateway for the first load host.

 o  Verify connectivity between installed access routines and the IBM
    system if they have been pre-configured according to the guidelines
    provided by Digital for those products. The following access rou-
    tines qualify for this verification:

    o  DECnet/SNA VMS 3270 Terminal Emulation

    o  DECnet/SNA VMS Printer Emulation

    o  DECnet/SNA VMS Remote Job Entry

    o  DECnet/SNA Data Transfer Facility

    o  DEC SNA 3270 Application Services

 Connectivity verification of the Domain Gateway with access routine
 products, other than those listed above, will be done using the In-
 stallation Verification (IVP) Software Program supplied with each ac-
 cess routine.

 An installation service is available for the simultaneous installa-
 tion of the DECnet/SNA access routines on additional VAX, RISC, or MS-DOS
 systems.

 Digital will provide these services upon customer notification that
 the system, including all prerequisite hardware and software, is ready
 for installation according to the guidelines listed in the Customer

                                 10

 

 Responsibilities section of this Software Product Description. Con-
 tact the Area Digital Sales Office for additional information on these
 services.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 Warranty Limitations

 IBM Supported Configurations

 This product operates with the IBM host systems and software subsys-
 tems listed in the System Support Addendum (SSA 38.69.00-x). While this
 software may function correctly with other IBM hardware, software, and
 equipment, and with hardware and software other than that supported
 by IBM, Digital cannot offer its standard warranty for this product
 unless it has been tested with such equipment and software configu-
 rations and found acceptable to Digital.

 For a complete list of IBM application subsystems (e.g., CICS/VS) that
 the various DECnet/SNA access routines have been certified against and
 that are supported configurations by Digital, please consult the re-
 spective access routine Software Product Descriptions (SPDs).

 

 ®  MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 ®  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
    chines Corporation.

 [TM]VTAM is a trademark of International Business Machines Corpora-
    tion.




                                 11

 


 ®  The DIGITAL Logo, BASIC, CI, DEC, DECforms, DECnet, DECsup-
    port, DECwindows, Digital, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, TK, ULTRIX,
    VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, and VT
    are registered trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation.



































                                 12
