PRODUCT NAME:   DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.0                 SPD 25.D2.00

DESCRIPTION

DEC GKS-3D provides the application programmer with a set of functions for
interactive and non-interactive computer graphics applications that need to
define and display computer generated three dimensional pictures using a
variety of computer graphic equipment.  DEC GKS-3D as a development tool is
a solid base for portable, device-independent, three dimensional graphics
application development. 

DEC GKS-3D (Graphical Kernel System for Three Dimensions) is a subroutine
library packaged as a VMS Run-Time Library with shareable image device
handlers.

DEC GKS-3D implements the International Standard (IS 8805)
Graphical Kernel System for Three Dimensional device-independent graphics.
DEC GKS-3D conforms to level 2c of the GKS-3D International Standard.  Thus
it provides full output capabilities, including workstation independent
segment storage (level 2), and full input capabilities (synchronous and
asynchronous input (level c)).

DEC GKS-3D is upwardly compatible with DIGITAL's DEC GKS (two dimensional
Graphical Kernel System).  Two dimensional graphics applications, written to
conform to the ISO standard, will run without change using DEC GKS-3D.  (Note
that it is possible to write programs that do not conform to the standard and
in these cases, changes may be required to the applications sources.)

Features

Viewing Operations

DEC GKS-3D allows the user to specify views of 3D objects and define the
working coordinate system (world coordinates).  World coordinates can have
any scale.  For example, one application might have a maximum range from 0
to 1000.0 while another application might limit the range from 0.01 to
0.1.

The user can also control multiple simultaneous views of the same object
on separate display surfaces, as well as the position of the picture on
the surface.  For example, one application program can display an image
of a cube in one window on a workstation and at the same time in another
window (on another workstation if required) it can display a detail of
the rear of the cube all from the same application program. 
   
GKS-3D Metafile

DEC GKS-3D provides an interface to sequential files, the ISO suggested
GKS-3D Metafile for filing graphical information.  The metafiles can be
used for the following purposes: 

^ Transporting graphical information between systems with compatible
  versions  of GKS-3D

^ Transporting graphical information from one DEC GKS-3D application to
  another

^ Storing accompanying nongraphical information
      
DDIF Output
      
DEC GKS-3D provides support for storing two dimensional views of three
dimensional objects encoded in DIGITAL's Document Interchange Format
(DDIF). Views stored in DDIF may be then processed by applications
which conform to DIGITAL's Compound Document Architecture.
      
DECwindows

DEC GKS-3D provides support for VMS DECwindows.         
         
Escape Feature

DEC GKS-3D provides an escape mechanism which allows the application
programmer to access device capabilities not defined in the GKS standard.

Character Sets

DEC GKS-3D provides a series of device independent stroke
precision character fonts. These character fonts were originally
digitized by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the Naval Surface Weapons
Laboratory, and were supplied to DIGITAL by the National Bureau of
Standards. 

In DEC GKS-3D, text lies on a plane which may be arbitrarily positioned in
3D space.

Language Bindings

DEC GKS-3D functions can be accessed by four sets of subroutine calls:
                                                
^ An interface which conforms to the ISO (DIS 8806/1) FORTRAN binding to
  GKS-3D.

  The FORTRAN binding interface allows users to port GKS-3D applications
  which are written in FORTRAN across heterogeneous operating systems
  with conforming implementations of the FORTRAN binding and GKS-3D.

^ An interface which conforms to a 3D extension of the ISO (DIS 8651/4)
  C language binding to GKS.
                                            
^ A VMS specific interface is provided which follows the standard
  VMS calling conventions and is callable by many different languages. 
       
^ A DEC GKS compatibility binding (2D) which follows the standard
  VMS calling conventions and is callable by many different languages.
          
Graphic Handlers

DEC GKS-3D provides support for a wide variety of DIGITAL and non-DIGITAL
graphics output devices and support for DIGITAL VAXstations as input and
output devices. (Refer to the Optional Hardware section in the System
Support Addendum (SSA 25.D2.00-x).

Compatibility with two dimensional DEC GKS

DEC GKS-3D is upwardly compatible with DIGITAL's implementation of the two
dimensional GKS standard, DEC GKS.  Two dimensional application programs
that have been written to adhere to the ISO 8805 GKS standard will run
without changes in source code.  (Recompilation will be required). 

Note that it is possible to write applications using DEC GKS in a manner
that would mandate changes to the source code before they would work with
DEC GKS-3D.

Output Functions

^ Segments

  DEC GKS-3D provides a set of functions for the creation, manipulation, and
  deletion of stored groups of output primitives called segments.

^ Immediate Mode

  It is not mandatory to use segments, DEC GKS-3D provides a way of
  immediately outputting graphic primitives to the device(s).  This can be
  useful in certain applications.

^ Polyline

  Draws one or more connected line segments between points defined in 3D
  space by an arbitrary sequence of 3D co-ordinates.

^ Polymarker

  Draws one or more symbols in a position defined by arbitrary 3D
  co-ordinates, which can mark significant points in a picture.

^ Text

  Draws any character string on a plane arbitrarily placed within 3D space.
  Characters can be displayed in a variety of fonts and orientations.

^ Fill area

  Draws a polygonal area on a plane arbitrarily placed in 3D space, which
  can be hollow or filled with a uniform color, a pattern, or a hatch style.

^ Fill area set

  Draws a set of polygonal areas which can be hollow or filled with a
  uniform color, a pattern, or a hatch style.  Edge control is provided.

^ Cell array

  Draws a rectangular image, specified by a two-dimensional array of picture
  elements, on a plane arbitrarily placed in 3D space.

Attributes

Each output function has an associated set of ``attributes'' which control
the appearance of the output.  Attributes can be defined in groups, called
bundles, or individually. Examples of such attributes are:

^ Line type

  The programmer can control the style of a line.  For example, lines can be
  dotted or dashed.

^ Line width

  In addition to line type, the width and scale of the line in 3 dimensions
  can be controlled.

^ Color

  Color selection is performed by selecting one of the predefined colors or
  by specifying the red, green, and blue intensities required to define a
  particular color on color devices.

^ Character Attributes

  A specific font, as well as the character spacing, height, plane, angle,
  path, and alignment can be specified.

^ View Index

  GKS-3D allows for the definition of a pointer to a view table entry for a
  workstation.  It selects the viewing representation at display time.

^ Hidden Line - Hidden Surface Removal Identifier

  This attribute supplies HLHSR information to the workstation to allow for
  hidden line/hidden surface removal.

^ Pick Identifier

  The Pick Identifier attribute is used to identify a primitive or group of
  primitives in a segment and can also be used to control behaviour when
  that segment is "picked" by user or application action.

Input Functions

DEC GKS-3D supports synchronous and asynchronous input using any of the six
different input methods listed below.

^ Locator - Returns a point within the user's working coordinate system

^ Stroke - Returns a series of points within the user's working coordinate
  system

^ Valuator - Returns a single real value within a specified range

^ Choice - Returns a status and a single non-negative integer within a
  specified range

^ String - Returns a string of characters

^ Pick - Returns a status and a segment name and pick identifier.
  (Primitives outside segments cannot be picked.)

Control Functions

DEC GKS-3D provides control functions for managing the manner and devices on
which pictures will be displayed.  These include GKS-3D initialization and
termination, and functions that control the opening and closing of logical
graphical devices.

Inquiry Functions

DEC GKS-3D provides a complete set of inquiry functions which aid in
developing modular, device-independent programs.

DEC GKS-3D Run-Time Only License 

The DEC GKS-3D Run-Time license does not allow the user to create new
applications, but rather allows execution of applications that were
previously developed using the full DEC GKS-3D Developer's Kit.
   
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System
Support Addendum (SSA 25.D2.00-x). 

The minimum supported memory for this application running in a 
standalone DECwindows environment with both the client and server
executing on that same system is 4 MB.

The performance and memory usage of DECwindows applications are particularly
sensitive to system configuration. Less memory may be required on the client
system (the system where the software is installed and executed) if the
server (the component that displays the application) resides on another
system. More memory may be required on a system with several applications
running or may be desirable to improve the performance of an application. 

The minimum supported memory is the minimum that will allow the product 
to run adequately. For optimal performance of the product, the recommended 
memory is 8 MB. 
   
SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS  *
  
For workstations running VMS Workstation Software: 

VMS Operating System      

VMS Workstation Software 

For workstations running DECwindows: 

VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

This product may run in either of the following ways:

^ Stand-alone execution - Running the X11 display server and the client
  application on the same machine.

^ Remote execution -  Running the X11 display server and the client
  application on different machines.

VMS DECwindows is part of the VMS Operating System but must be installed
separately. Installation of VMS DECwindows gives you the option to install 
any or all of the following three components:

^ VMS DECwindows Compute Server

^ VMS DECwindows Device Support

^ VMS DECwindows Programming Support

For stand-alone execution, the following DECwindows components must be
installed on the machine: 

VMS DECwindows Compute Server 

VMS DECwindows Device support

For remote execution, the following DECwindows components must be installed
on the machines: 

   Server Machine                           Client Machine

VMS DECwindows Compute Server         VMS DECwindows Compute Server
VMS DECwindows Device Support                                     
             
* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.D2.00-x).
                  
ORDERING INFORMATION
   
For the full DEC GKS-3D Development Kit:
   
Software Licenses:  QL-VFXE9-J*   
Software Media: QA-VFXEA-H*
Software Documentation: QA-VFXEA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VFXE9-**
   
For the DEC GKS-3D Run-Time Only Kit:
   
Software Licenses: QL-VFYE9-J*
Software Media:  QA-VFYEA-H*
Software Documentation: QA-VFXEA-GZ
Software Product Services:  QT-VFYE9-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on licenses, 
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING
   
This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.   For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.
   
LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT
   
This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.
   
For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation
set.
   
For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact
your local DIGITAL office.
   
SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES
   
A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more
information contact your local DIGITAL office.
   
SOFTWARE WARRANTY
   
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD. 

March 1989
BH-MQ13A-TE
