PRODUCT NAME:  DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.0          SPD  26.20.08

DESCRIPTION

DEC GKS provides the application programmer with a single interface to 
a variety of graphic devices.  DEC GKS is a solid base for portable, 
device-independent two-dimensional graphics application development.  DEC  
GKS is a development tool that application programmers can use to produce 
computer generated pictures.

DEC GKS (Graphical Kernel System) is a subroutine library packaged as a 
VMS shareable image, which implements the ISO (IS 7942) and ANSI 
(ANS X3.124- 1985) GKS standard for two-dimensional (2D) device-independent 
graphics.  DEC GKS conforms to level 2c of the GKS standard which provides 
full output capabilities, including workstation independent segment storage 
(level 2), and full input capabilities (synchronous and asynchronous input 
(level c)).  DEC GKS supports DECwindows.

Features

Viewing Operations

DEC GKS allows the user to define the working coordinate system (world 
coordinates). World coordinates can have any scale. For example, one
application might have a maximum range from 0 to 1000.0 while another 
application might limit the range from 0.01 to 0.1.

The user can also control multiple simultaneous views of the same picture 
on separate display surfaces, as well as the position of the picture
on the surface. For example, one application program can display a map 
of the United States on a VT125 and at the same an enlarged section of the map
on a LVP16 Pen Plotter. (e.g., New England states).

GKS Metafile

DEC GKS provides an interface to sequential files, the ISO and ANSI suggested 
GKS Metafile (GKSM) for filing graphical information. The metafiles can be 
used for the following purposes:

^ Storing graphical information in a device independent format

^ Transporting graphical information between systems with compatible 
  versions of GKS

^ Transporting graphical information from one DEC GKS application to another

^ Storing accompanying nongraphical information

Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM) Output

DEC GKS provides support for storing information using the Computer Graphics 
Metafile (CGM). CGM is an approved ANSI standard format (ANS X3.122-1986).  
DEC  GKS supports CGM output for both of the following formats:

Clear Text Encoding - Graphical output data stored in the clear text 
format is easily created, viewed and modified using a common
text editor. It is also a suitable format for transferring graphical 
output data through networks that only support the transfer of a
text file.

Character Encoding - Graphical output data is typically stored in the 
character format to attain minimal file size. Data stored in this
format is particularly suitable for transfer through networks which cannot 
support binary transfers.

Escape Feature
 
DEC GKS provides an escape mechanism which allows the application programmer 
to access device capabilities not defined in the GKS standard. For example, 
an ESCAPE function is defined that activates the hardcopy feature of a VT125 
raster graphics terminal.

Character Sets

DEC GKS provides a series of stroke precision character fonts. These 
character fonts were digitized by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the Naval
Surface Weapons Laboratory, and have been supplied to DIGITAL by the 
National Bureau of Standards.

DEC GKS also provides text support for the "native" character set(s) of 
the supported graphical devices.

Language Binding

DEC GKS functions can be accessed by three sets of subroutine calls. DEC 
GKS provides an interface which conforms to the ANSI standard (ANS X3.124.1-
1985) and ISO (DIS 8651/1) FORTRAN binding to GKS, a C binding interface 
which conforms to the proposed C language binding standard, as well as a VMS
specific interface which follows the standard VMS calling conventions and is 
callable by many different languages.

The FORTRAN and C binding interfaces allow users to transport GKS 
applications which are written in FORTRAN or C across heterogeneous 
operating systems with conforming implementations of the FORTRAN or C 
bindings and GKS. Calls to the C Language binding cannot be mixed with 
calls to the other language bindings in the same application.

Graphic Handlers

DEC GKS provides support for a wide variety of DIGITAL and non-DIGITAL 
graphics devices.  In addition, DEC GKS provides the information
necessary for users to develop their own graphic device handlers for 
devices that DEC GKS does not support. Device handlers can be developed 
in VAX FORTRAN, VAX C, and VAX PASCAL.

Output Functions

Segments - DEC GKS provides a set of functions for the creation, 
manipulation, and deletion of stored groups of output primitives 
called segments.

Polyline - Draws one or more connected line segments.

Polymarker - Draws one or more symbols which can mark significant points 
in a picture.

Text - Draws any character string. Characters can be displayed in a variety 
of fonts and orientations.

Fill area - Draws a polygonal area, which can be hollow or filled with a 
uniform color, a pattern, or a hatch style.

Cell array - Draws a rectangular image, specified by a two-dimensional array 
of picture elements.

Generalized Drawing Primitive (GDP) - Allows access to drawing capabilities 
of graphics devices which are not used by the functions listed above. For
example, two GDPs commonly used are circles and arcs.

Attributes

Each output function has an associated set of "attributes" which control 
the appearance of the output. Attributes can be defined in groups, called
bundles, or individually. For example, the attributes for polyline are the 
following:

Line Type - Controls the style of a line, for example, lines can be dotted 
or dashed.

Line Width - Controls the width of the line.

Line Color - Color selection is performed by selecting an index into a table 
containing the red, green, and blue intensities required to define a 
particular color on color devices.

Input Functions

DEC GKS supports synchronous and asynchronous input.  The following 
six classes of input data are supported.

^ Locator - Returns a point within the user's world coordinate system

^ Stroke - Returns a series of points within the user's world coordinate system

^ Valuator - Returns a single real value within a specified range

^ Choice - Returns a single non-negative integer within a specified range

^ String - Returns a string of characters

^ Pick - Returns a segment name and pick identifier

Control Functions

DEC GKS provides special functions for management of the picture process, 
including GKS initialization and termination, the opening and closing of 
logical graphical devices, and the control of the display surface.

Inquiry Functions

In addition, DEC GKS provides a complete set of inquiry functions which 
aid in developing modular, device-independent programs.

DEC GKS Run-Time Only License

Since DEC GKS is a graphics application development tool, DIGITAL provides 
a Run-Time Only License for running graphics applications that were developed
utilizing DEC GKS graphics. This license is offered at a substantially 
reduced cost per CPU. The DEC GKS Run-Time License does not allow the user 
to create new applications, but rather allows execution of applications that 
were previously developed on a CPU where the full GKS product had been 
installed under a Single-Use License Option.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 26.20.08-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

Operating Systems

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System          

For workstations running DECwindows:

VMS Operating System (and the necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

For workstations running VMS Workstation Software:

VMS Operating System

VMS Workstation Software

For systems using terminals:

VMS Operating System

This product may run in either of the following ways:

^ Standalone execution - Running the X11 display server and the client 
  application on different machines.

^ Remote Execution - Running the X11 display server and the client 
  applicaton on different machines.

VMS DECwindows is a part of the VMS Operating System but must be 
installed separately.  Installation of the VMS DECwindows gives the 
user the option of installing any of the following three components:

^ VMS DECwindows Base kit (Runtime Support)

^ VMS DECwindows Device support

^ VMS DECwindows Programming Language support

For standalone execution, the following DECwindows components must be 
installed on the machine.

^ VMS DECwindows Base kit (Runtime Support)

^ VMS DECwindows Device support

For remote execution, the following DECwindows components must be 
installed on the machines:

Server Machine                  Client Machine

VMS DECwindows Base Kit         VMS DECwindows Base Kit 
  (Runtime support)               (Runtime support)

VMS DECwindows Device support    Language support
Language support 

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
  of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 26.20.08-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Development System

Software Licenses: QL-810A*-**
Software Media: QA-810A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-810A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-810A*-**

Run-Time Option

Software Licenses: QL-811A*-**
Software Media: QA-811A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-811A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-811A*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses, 
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management
Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or 
the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
Warranty Addendum of this SPD.            


March 1989 
BH-BP36I-TE

