DECintact, Version 1.1					SPD 29.58.03

DESCRIPTION

The DECintact (Integrated Application Control System) product provides a 
foundation for building simple and complex transaction processing 
applications on one or more VAX systems under the VMS Operating System. The 
DECintact product runs as a collection of services and several processes 
under the VMS Operating System.  It supports either single-threaded 
(Per-Process) or multi-threaded (Server) application program design 
methodologies.  Multiple versions of the DECintact product may execute at 
the same time, sharing physical memory, and be completely independent.  The 
DECintact product offers the following major facilities: 

oo   Terminal Management
oo   Security and Menu Dispatching
oo   File Management and Restart/Recovery
oo   Queue Management
oo   Network Management

Terminal Management

The DECintact product supports VT100, VT200 and VT300 (in VT200 emulation 
mode) series terminals as though they were intelligent block mode 
terminals. Programmers create screen forms interactively through the 
Terminal Forms Editor (TFE).  Forms are virtual in length and multiple 
forms may be windowed on a single terminal.  Fields on a form have video 
and/or edit attributes which are handled by the terminal management 
facility.  A user-written edit routine facility exists which allows 
character, field and form editing to be augmented by the programmer. The 
ability to print a hardcopy of the screen is a built-in service of the 
terminal management facility.

Security and Menu Dispatching

The DECintact product provides a comprehensive security and menu system. A 
mechanism for establishing security profiles for local/remote users and 
terminals is provided. The DECintact product makes use of a hierarchical 
menu system which permits references to both lower level menus and to menu 
functions directly invoking applications.  All menu items may be protected, 
and users are shown only those items for which they have proper 
entitlement. Hours of operation, password expiration, transaction audit and 
response time reports are among the features of the DECintact security 
system.

File Management 

DIGITAL's Record Management Services (RMS) is used for file and record 
access.  The DECintact File Management facility improves upon its use of 
the RMS facility by supporting shared relative files, logically deleted 
records and implicit file openings.  The DECintact product also supplies 
its own Hash File access support which provides a high performance method 
of inserting and retrieving records.  All record operations are considered 
atomic for the purposes of restart/recovery.  Two separate recovery 
strategies, roll forward and roll backward, are available.  They may be 
combined to ensure maximum reliability.  Roll backward recoveries are 
supported on-line with no interruption or loss of service.

Queue Management 

The DECintact product provides a comprehensive set of routines which 
support the creation of disk and/or memory based queues.  A queue consists 
of items which are priority ordered with up to 65000 priority classes per 
queue. Queue items may be inserted FIFO or in priority order and are 
removed either FIFO, atomic for the purposes of restart/recovery.  All disk 
based queues are fully recoverable.  The DECintact product supports remote 
queues, queue sets, multiple queue insertions, enqueue-level threshold 
alarms and proof and reconciliation statistics.

Network Management 

The DECintact product supports explicit and implicit remote access at the 
menu item level and uses DECnet facilities for intersystem communication. 
Network access is supported at two levels:  peer-to-peer and 
front-end-to-host.  Peer-to-peer access allows users with sufficient 
entitlement to invoke applications remotely on another participating 
DECintact system. Front-End-to-Host access provides a transparent method of 
off-loading forms management (including both built-in and user-written 
validation) and menu level security from a host onto a VAX front-end 
system. A VAX front-end system also offers automatic host failure rollover 
in the event a CPU within a host VAXcluster system fails.

VAXcluster Features 

The DECintact product supports the building of simple as well as complex 
VAXcluster applications.  All DECintact file accesses as well as all 
disk-based queue operations utilize the VMS distributed lock manager to 
arbitrate cluster-wide system resources. The DECintact system support of 
VAXcluster features in conjunction with its own restart/recovery strategies 
can be used to simplify the implementation of high availability 
applications.
 
Development Option 

The DECintact Development Option provides all features of the product for 
the application development environment.

Development Conversion Option

The Conversion Option is intended for those customers who have an existing, 
``licensed'' application(s) running under Advanced Systems Concepts 
INTACT and wish to convert them to run under the DECintact Development 
Product.

Run-time Option

As a subset of the Development Option, the DECintact Run-time Option allows 
existing, developed applications to be run in a production environment 
under an alternate license.  This option does not provide the facilities 
for developing applications.

Run-time Conversion Option

The Conversion Option is intended for those customers who have an existing, 
``licensed'' application(s) running under Advanced Systems Concepts 
INTACT and wish to convert them to run under the DECintact Runtime  
Product.

Remote-Access Option

As a subset of the Run-time Option, the Remote-Access Option provides the 
ability to off-load the Terminal Management Facilities in a distributed 
application environment, to ``remote'' or ``front-end'' systems under an 
alternate license.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 29.58.03-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

oo   VMS Operating System

For Workstations Running VWS:

oo   VMS Operating System

oo   VMS Workstation Software

In addition to these requirements, DECnet-VAX is required for the 
Remote-Access Option.

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
    versions of required/optional software (SSA 29.58.03-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Development Option

Software Licenses: QL-VF1A*-**
Software Media: QA-VF1A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VF1A*-**

Development Conversion Option

Software Licenses: QL-VG4A*-**
Software Media: QA-VG4A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VF1A*-**

Run-time Option

Software Licenses: QL-VF2A*-**
Software Media: QA-VF2A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VF2A*-**

Run-time Conversion Option

Software Licenses: QL-YEGA*-**
Software Media: QA-YEGA*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VF2A*-**

Remote-Access Option

Software Licenses: QL-VF3A*-**
Software Media: QA-VF3A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VF3A*-**

Documentation Option

Software Documentation QA-VF1AA-GZ

*   Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

Single-Use Conversion License Option

In cooperation with Advanced Systems Concepts, current VMS licensed users 
of their INTACT product are eligible for the Single-Use Conversion License 
Option. This is a Single-Use License offered at a reduced price and 
provides all of the License rights described above.  The Single-Use 
Conversion License Option is your right to use the software product on a 
single VAX processor currently licensed for the INTACT product by Advanced 
Systems Concepts.

For each installation of this software product on a VAX processor currently 
licensed for the INTACT product, you must purchase as a minimum:

oo   Single-Use Conversion License Option, and 


oo   Distribution and Documentation Option 

or

oo   Distribution Option 

The license gives you the right to use the software on a single CPU and the 
Distribution and Documentation Option provides the machine-readable 
software and related hardcopy documentation.  The Distribution Option 
provides only the machine-readable software.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License 
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.  

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available.  For more information contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for the DECintact product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

