
 PRODUCT NAME: DECdecision, Version 1.0           SPD 25.G2.00

 DESCRIPTION

 DECdecision is a VAX/VMS, workstation-based, decision support 
 application that runs under the DECwindows Desktop Environment.

 DECdecision is comprised of four major software components: 
 Access, for ad-hoc database queries; Calc, for analyzing financial and       
 business data; Chart, for generating business graphs; and 
 Builder, for recording and automating repetitive tasks across 
 components.

 DECdecision runs under the DECwindows X-Window environment and incorporates 
 its common appearance and operation for pull-down menus, dialog boxes, 
 windows, component cut/paste operations, and mouse pointing device support.  
 Therefore, DECdecision has a consistent appearance across the entire product, 
 shared with other applications written under DECwindows, such as DECwrite. 

 Features

 DECdecision Access (Database)

 Access is the database management component of DECdecision 
 providing distributed access to local and remote data, a 
 simplified windowed approach to data query and manipulation, and 
 personal database creation.  Access is comprised of:


	    ^ Data manipulation functions, including "Show Fewer" 
	      for sub-setting a data collection; "Show More" for expanding     
	      the collection; "Show Unique" for displaying one instance of 
	      a value, etc., and "Sort" for rearranging data in 
	      ascending or descending order by one or more fields.

	    ^ Data editing, including easy data entry, update and 
	      deletion, cut and paste, "Undo" of last typed 
 	      entry, etc.

	     ^Calculate functions, including Total (Sum), Average             
	      (Mean), Maximums, and Minimums by sub-groups of 
	      records; and Computed columns where a column is based 
              on one or more other columns or based on one column 
              multiplied by a constant value, etc.

	    ^ Public Folders for sharing databases in a workgroup 
	      and Private Folders for personal databases.

	    ^ Data Protection Services, including "Protection" for 
              enabling or restricting users to read or modify tables and 
	      "Access Mode" to determine how users can open a table 
	      (Read Only or  Update).

	    ^ Draw Chart utility for automatically invoking and 
              passing data to DECchart.	
	
	    ^ Record and Playback for capturing commands for                
	      later use.

	    ^ View Document utility for storing and displaying a             
              reference within the database to a DDIF document 
              such as a letter created by DECwrite or a scanned 
              image that has been converted to DDIF.

	    ^ Join function for combining other DECdecision tables 
	      or a variety of data files from other supported 
              sources.

            ^ Reference utility for creating and maintaining references to data         
              outside of Access including: Rdb/VMS databases, DATATRIEVE 
              domains, RMS files and DBMS databases through DATATRIEVE, 
              and IBM IDMS/R and DB2 files through VIDA. (RMS files, DBMS 
              databases, and IBM data is read only.)

	    ^ Simple Report generation using data from single or 
	      multiple data sources; ability to subset and sort 
	      data, establish line and page control breaks, and 
	      save or print the result to ASCII, PostScript or DDIF 
	      formats.  DDIF Reports for use in DECwrite.

DECdecision Calc

Calc is the major analytical component of DECdecision combining its 
windowed spreadsheet interface for ease of formula and expression 
construction, a spreadsheet macro language, and mathematical, 
statistical, and financial functions.  Calc is comprised of: 

            ^ Financial Functions, including Future Value (FV),
              Internal Rate of Return (IRR), Net Present Value (NPV),
              Payback analysis, Interest calculation, Payments, etc.

            ^ Mathematical Manipulations such as Absolute Values,
              Exponentiation, Logarithms (Base 10 and E), Square
              Roots, and Rounding.
	         
            ^ Statistical Functions for calculating Mean, Counts,
              Maximums, Minimums, Variances, Standard Deviations, and
              Sums.

            ^ Trigonometric Functions for Sine, Cosine, and Tangent
              calculations and transformations.
          
            ^ Boolean Operators, including And, Or, Not, and
              conditional statements.

            ^ Constant Values including E (2.71828), PI 
              (3.14159), If for conditional values, and NA (not available) 
              for missing values.

            ^ Date/Time Functions including calendar functions,
              weeks, years, today, now, etc.

            ^ Chart Function for dynamic updating of a chart. 
              When values are changed in cells the chart is 
              automatically updated.

	    ^ Linking and Consolidate capabilities to combine 
              several (local and remote) spreadsheets into one 
              master spreadsheet.

            ^ Hide and Lock capabilities for protecting sensitive 
              data. 

	    ^ Record and Playback for capturing spreadsheet                 
              commands for later use.

	    ^ A What-if Table is provided for performing analysis 
              on different values using the same formulas.

            ^ An internal procedural programming language for the 
	      advanced user who wants to develop a complex macro.	

 DECchart (Graphics)

 Chart is DECdecision's integrated charting component that works 
 directly with data from Calc and Access, and external sources: 
 DECgraph, ASCII, and Lotus WK1 files. Chart has a Chartbook that 
 presents the user with a sequence of pre-defined charts that can 
 be further customized through legends, grids, titles, etc.  Chart 
 offers a wide variety of 45 chart styles based upon 9 basic 
 graphics styles: Line, Area, Bar, Column, Histogram, Pie,                   
 Scatter, High-Low-Close, and Combination charts. Chart is                   
 comprised of:

	    ^ Graphic annotation, overlay: text, lines, rectangles, 
	      and arrowheads anywhere on a chart for emphasis and 
	      customization.

 	    ^ Color on-screen support, assign color attributes to: axis, 
              baseline, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, column and bar 
	      fills, and overlay objects. 

	    ^ Easy modification of chart attributes including: axis, 
	      baseline, data values, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick 
	      marks, drop shadows, bar spacing, and bar overlap.

	    ^ File flexibility; save data, chart style, chart overlay, 
	      and color selections separately or save everything 
	      together.

	    ^ Selectable fill patterns, line patterns, marker types, 
	      and color attributes.

	    ^ Easy to use worksheet interface for graphical "What IF".

	    ^ Easy modification of text attributes, change: font size, 
	      family, weight, and slant.




 DECdecision Builder (Procedure Automation Tool)

 Builder is DECdecision's cross component automation tool that 
 builds procedures by recording cross-window operations (e.g., 
 application invocation, data flow, control flow) between                  
 components to produce automated procedures.  Builder has the 
 capability of recording, storing, and playing back frequently
 repeated procedures performed by DECdecision's integrated components.  
 Builder is comprised of:
             
	    ^ Automatic Record Mode to automatically capture
              information flows and command sequences.

	    ^ Manual Record Mode to choose non-integrated applications 
              and tools and arrows for data flows.

	    ^ Playback Mode to run the Builder procedure, viewed 
              interactively or in the background.

	    ^ Debug Mode to identify and correct errors in 
              procedures constructed with Builder. 

            ^ Guide Utility for storing and viewing a description of a       
              procedure.  

	    ^ Toolbox for storing connections to a nonintegrated 
              application such as MAIL.  A nonintegrated 
              applications is any application or program that can 
              be invoked from DCL.  Nonintegrated applications 
              cannot be automatically recorded by Builder.  

	    ^ Editing features including cut, paste, duplicate, 
	      and delete.
          
            ^ Nesting capabilities to create embedded procedures 
              within other Builder procedures and for embedding 
              Calc and Access procedures.


System-wide Features


Ease-of-Use

DECdecision features a control panel for convenient startup of the components, 
customization for modifying various characteristics of the DECdecision 
environment, and Help for a general overview of each component.  In addition, 
DECdecision incorporates the use of Pop-up windows throughout the 
product for a quick listing of currently available functions, and 
accelerator keys and command line entry for experienced users. 


HELP

DECdecision offers two ways for users to get help: From the control panel 
users can choose "Overview" to receive an explanation of each for the 
components and "HELP" can be invoked on an object throughout all of 
DECdecision's components for a detailed explanation of a specific function.


Import and Export Capabilities

DECdecision includes import and export capabilities that assists the user 
with transferring files to and from popular application formats.  DECdecision 
utilizes the Compound Document Architecture (CDA) converter architecture to 
interchange data with these application formats.  The following lists the 
converters shipped with DECdecision:  

   Import Capabilities      
                               	             Access   Calc    Chart
   Formats:           
     		
     ASCII Tabular				x	x	x
     WK1 (Lotus 1-2-3 V2.0 and V2.1 files)      x	x	x
     CALCGRD (DECalc V3.0A, DECalc-PLUS V3.0A)	x	x	x		
     DIF (Data Interchange Format)		x	x	x


   Export Capabilities
                                	     Access   Calc    
   Formats:           
     			
     ASCII Tabular              		x       x       
     WK1 (Lotus 1-2-3 V2.0 and V2.1 files)      x       x       


Additional converters are available through the VMS CDA Converter 
Library (see the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.G2.00-x for further 
information).
         
Relationship to DECwrite

DECwrite is a compound document processing application that 
allows VMS users to create and format documents which contain 
text, graphics, and images, and supported application data.

Reports generated within Access and Calc, and graphs from Chart 
can be incorporate into DECwrite through the use of DECwrite's "Live Link" 
utility.  In addition, DECwrite can read DECdecision Digital 
Document Interchanged Format (DDIF) report files directly.

DOCUMENTATION

 DECdecision Installation Guide
 DECdecision Overview
 DECdecision Calc User's Guide
 DECdecision Calc Macro Guide
 DECdecision Access User's Guide
 DECchart User's Guide
 DECdecision Builder User's Guide
 Converter Reference Guide

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support 
 Addendum (SSA 25.G2.00-x).                                                     


 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

 For Workstations Running DECwindows: 

 VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)



* Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.G2.00-x) for                    
 availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for 
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.
  
ORDERING INFORMATION

Software License: QL-VW3A*-**
Software Media: QA-VW3*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VW3AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VW3A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses, 
services and media refer to the appropriate price book.


SOFTWARE LICENSING 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a user/activity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set. 

 For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and                  
 policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.                              

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For 
more information,
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with 
the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the 
Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.
                       
