PRODUCT NAME:  DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.0         SPD 29.38.03 

DESCRIPTION 

DEC PHIGS, (the Programmers Hierarchical Interactive Graphics System) is a 
sophisticated, 3D graphics support system that controls the definition, 
modification, and display of hierarchical graphics data.

DEC PHIGS is device independent.  That is, the same program can generate 
graphical output on different devices without modification to the source code.  
DEC PHIGS manages the organization and display of graphical data stored in a 
conceptually centralized database.  DEC PHIGS for VMS runs under the VMS 
Operating System. 

DEC PHIGS for VMS is DIGITAL's implementation of the ANSI /ISO PHIGS standard 
and is supported on most DIGITAL processors running VMS (Refer to the System 
Support Addendum SSA 29.38.03-x). DEC PHIGS for VMS supports either DECwindows 
or VMS Workstation Software (VWS).  DEC PHIGS, also supports most of the 
hardcopy devices supported by DEC GKS, Version 4.0, such as the HPGLTMF
TM HPGL is a trademark of Hewlett-Packard Co.
F series 
of plotters and DIGITAL's compatible sixel devices, as well as all the 
terminals supported by DEC GKS.

DEC PHIGS for VMS is a subroutine library packaged as a set of shareable 
images. DEC PHIGS is based on the 1988  PHIGS standard for three dimensional 
(3D) device-independent graphics. 

DEC PHIGS provides capabilities in addition to those specified in the PHIGS 
standard. In particular, DEC PHIGS provides functions for hidden line/hidden 
surface removal (HLHSR), lighting, shading and depth cueing.  DEC PHIGS also 
provides additional primitives such as circles, circular arcs, triangle strips, 
quadrilateral meshes, indexed polygons, and trimmed and untrimmed NURBs 
(non-uniform rational B-splines). DEC PHIGS provides FORTRAN and C language 
bindings as well as a language-independent (PHIGS$) binding. 

Some functionality from the PHIGS Standard has not been implemented in DEC 
PHIGS V2.0. 

Functionality not supported by DEC PHIGS:

oo Modeling clip 

oo Metafiles

oo Cell array 

oo Patterns

oo Incremental spatial search 

Features

Structure Storage 

DEC PHIGS maintains a graphical database known as structure storage. 
Output primitives (polylines, polymarkers, etc.), attribute selection 
functions, labels, application data, name set specifications, 
transformation selections, and structure references are all structure 
elements that are placed in the structure store. These elements may be 
edited at any time by the application program. Graphical output is 
generated by a structure traversal mechanism that interprets items in the 
structure store. 

DEC PHIGS provides an alternate traversal mechanism called "immediate 
mode".  Using immediate mode, PHIGS primitives may be rendered directly 
to the display surface without being placed in structure storage.

Viewing Operations 

DEC PHIGS allows the definition of objects in their own "modeling" 
coordinate systems. Transformation functions are provided to position 
these objects with respect to one another in a "world" coordinate system. 
World coordinates can have any scale. For example, one application might 
have a maximum range from 0 to 1000.0 while another application might 
limit the range from 0.01 to 0.1. DEC PHIGS automatically converts from 
the world coordinate systems, into coordinates appropriate for the 
display device being used. 

The user can also control multiple simultaneous views of the same object 
on separate display surfaces, as well as the position and size of the 
picture on the surface. 

DEC PHIGS provides alternate viewing functionality commonly known as 
"posting to views", in addition to the PHIGS standard viewing model.

Control Functions 

DEC PHIGS provides special functions for management of the picture 
process, including PHIGS initialization and termination, and functions 
that control the opening and closing of logical graphical devices. 

Output Functions 

DEC PHIGS provides functions for creating both 2D and 3D graphics 
elements in structure storage. Some of these functions allow lighting and 
shading information to be specified as well.  The functions as follows: 

oo Polyline - Draws one or more connected line segments. 

oo Polymarker - Draws one or more symbols which can mark significant 
  points in a picture. 

oo Text - Draws a character string. Characters can be displayed in a 
  variety of fonts and orientations. Text size is affected by 
  transformations.

oo Fill Area - Draws a polygonal area which can be hollow or filled with a 
  uniform color or a hatch style. 

oo Fill Area Set - Draws a set of polygonal areas. Control of edge 
  attributes is provided with this primitive. 

oo Annotation Text Relative - Draws a character string in an X-Y plane 
  (always readable).  Characters can be displyed in a variety of fonts 
  and orientations.  Text size is not affected by transformations, but 
  text position is affected.

oo Circle and circular arc - Draws a circle or circular arc in the plane z 
  = 0.

oo Triangle strip - Generates a sequence of triangles.  Each triangle 
  shares an edge with the next triangle in the strip.

oo Quadrilateral mesh - Generates a sequence of quadrilateral polygons.

oo Indexed polygons - Generates a sequence of polygons that permits PHIGS 
  to take advantage of shared vertices.

oo NURBs - Non-Uniform Rational B-spline.  Generates a 3D curve or surface 
  from user-specified control points and approximation criteria.

Attributes 

Each output function has an associated set of "attributes" which control 
the appearance of the output. Attributes can be defined in groups, called 
bundles, or individually. Such attributes are: 

oo Line type - The programmer can control the style of a line. For 
  example, lines can be dotted or dashed. 

oo Line width - In addition to line type, the width of the line can be 
  controlled. 

oo Color - Color selection is performed by selecting one of the predefined 
  colors or by specifying the red, green, and blue intensities required 
  to define a particular color on color devices. 

oo Character Attributes - A specific font, as well as the character 
  spacing, height, angle, path, and alignment can be specified. 

 
 
Input Functions

DEC PHIGS supports synchronous and asynchronous input using any of the 
six different input methods listed below. 

oo Locator - Returns a point within the user's working coordinate system. 

oo Stroke - Returns a series of points within the user's working 
  coordinate system. 

oo Valuator - Returns a single real value within a specified range. 

oo Choice - Returns a single non-negative integer within a specified 
  range. 

oo String - Returns a string of characters.

oo Pick - Returns a pick path and pick identifier, and element number.

Name Sets 

DEC PHIGS includes the concept of name sets. Individual primitives may be 
associated with members of a name set that is used to determine 
eligibility for highlighting, visibility and picking. For example, in an 
architectural drawing, all steam pipes could be associated with one 
member of a name set and all water pipes with another. These sets of 
pipes could then be made invisible,  pickable, or highlighted as a group. 

Inquiry Functions 

DEC PHIGS provides a complete set of inquiry functions which aid in 
developing modular, device-independent programs. 

PHIGS Archive Files 

DEC PHIGS provides an interface to archive files, which allows for all or 
part of structure storage to be saved so that it can be recalled later. 
Archive files can be used for the following purposes: 

oo Saving and restoring graphical information between sessions. 

oo Transporting graphical information between DEC systems with compatible 
  versions of  DEC PHIGS. 

oo Transporting graphical information from one  DEC PHIGS application to 
  another DEC PHIGS application.

oo Storing accompanying nongraphical information.

Character Sets 

DEC PHIGS provides a series of stroke precision character fonts. These 
character fonts were digitized by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the Naval 
Surface Weapons Laboratory, and have been supplied to DIGITAL by the 
National Bureau of Standards. 

Language Binding 

DEC PHIGS functions can be accessed by three sets of subroutine calls.  
DEC PHIGS provides an interface which conforms to the proposed ANSI and 
ISO standard FORTRAN and C bindings to PHIGS, as well as a DEC specified 
PHIGS$ interface, which follows the standard VMS calling conventions, and 
is callable from many different languages. 

The FORTRAN and C binding interfaces allow users to transport PHIGS 
applications which are written in FORTRAN or C, across heterogeneous 
operating systems with conforming implementations of PHIGS and the 
FORTRAN or C bindings.  Calls to the C language binding cannot be mixed 
with calls to the other language bindings in the same application.

Graphic Handlers 

DEC PHIGS provides support for a wide variety of DIGITAL and non-DIGITAL 
graphics devices. In addition, users may develop their own graphic device 
handlers for devices that DIGITAL does not support, via the DEC GKS 2D 
device handler interface. This is described in the "Building a DEC GKS 
Device Handler System" manual which must be purchased separately (Order 
No. AA-MJ33A-TE).  Device handlers can be developed in VAX FORTRAN, VAX 
C, and VAX PASCAL. 

DEC PHIGS Run-Time Only License 

Since DEC PHIGS is a graphics application development tool, DIGITAL 
provides a Run-time Only License for running graphics applications that 
were developed utilizing  DEC PHIGS graphics. This license is offered at 
a substantially reduced cost per CPU. The DEC PHIGS Run-time License does 
not allow the user to create new applications, but rather allows 
execution of applications that were previously developed on a CPU where 
the full PHIGS product has been installed under a Single-use License 
Option. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 29.38.03-x). 

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS* 

For workstations running VMS Workstation Software:

VMS Operating System 
VMS Workstation Software 

For workstations running VMS DECwindows: 

VMS Operating System (and the necessary components of DECwindows)

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite software and for information regarding 
  components of VMS DECwindows (SSA 29.38.03-x). 

ORDERING INFORMATION 

Development 

Software Licenses: QL-0KBA*-**
Software Media: QA-0KBA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-0KBAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-0KBA*-**

Run-time Option

Software Licenses: QL-VK1A*-**
Software Media: QA-VK1A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VK1A*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book. 

SOFTWARE LICENSING 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.  
License units for both the full development system and runtime system are 
allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES 

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY 

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD. 

June 1989
AE-KX14D-TE 

