PRODUCT NAME:  DECwrite for VMS, Version 1.0         SPD 25.F7.00

DESCRIPTION

DECwrite for VMS is a compound document processing application 
that allows VMS users to create and format documents which contain 
text, graphics, images, and supported application data. DECwrite 
automates the steps of document production, from text entry, formatting, 
and graphics creation to printing.

DECwrite is compliant with Digital's Compound Document Architecture (CDA), and 
therefore can take advantage of the CDA converter architecture and system level 
support. This system level support includes the ability to mail compound 
documents across the enterprise.

DECwrite runs under VMS DECwindows (included with VMS Operating System) and 
utilizes a graphical WYSIWYG (What-You-See-Is-What-You-Get) interface.

The WYSIWYG interface displays the document on the screen as it will be 
printed.  DECwrite adheres to the DECwindows Style Guide and therefore has the 
same look and feel as other DECwindows applications.

DECwrite combines word processing, publishing, graphics creation, data driven 
charting, image integration and live links to supported application data. A 
DECwrite user may create sophisticated compound documents for distribution 
throughout the enterprise.

Features

User Interface

DECwrite presents functions through a graphical user interface. Functions are 
represented through straightforward menu selections and icons. DECwrite 
features a menu bar with pull-down menus at the top of the document window. 
These menus contain the top-level items such as File, Edit, Search, Type, 
Elements, Style, Draw, Links, Customize, and Help. The combination of pull-down 
menus, keyboard sequences, and dialogue boxes contain all of the functions 
needed to utilize DECwrite. The menus also display the keyboard equivalents 
provided to perform these functions from the keyboard.

In addition to the pull-down menus, DECwrite provides four context sensitive 
pop-up menus. These menus pop up near the pointer position for easy access. The 
pop-up menus include the most frequently used editing features for text and 
graphics, as well as the entries for the most commonly used element styles and 
objects.

The user interface also features the following:

oo A vertical scroll bar

oo Rulers with tracking and grids for easy placement of text blocks and 
  objects

oo Snap to ruler on or off

oo Status display boxes which display information such as the current page 
  number, total page count, current style, and graphic object size.


Help

DECwrite features context sensitive help on many functions. The help 
provides detailed information on how to utilize DECwrite features and 
aids the user in becoming proficient in creating DECwrite documents. In 
addition, an online demonstration which aids the user in learning 
DECwrite concepts can be accessed from help.  

Editor

DECwrite includes a full word processing editor with typical functions 
such as select, cut, copy, paste, undo, redo  and navigation. DECwrite 
features sophisticated search and replace capabilites including the 
ability to search for returns, special characters and arbitrary white 
space.

Advanced editorial features such as redlining, change bars, and change 
pages make DECwrite an appropriate application for documentation and 
publication groups. 

DECwrite includes Houghton Mifflin's high-quality hyphenation routines 
and an American lexicon based on the American Heritage Dictionary 
(included with the U.S. version only). 

DECwrite allows the user to create exception dictionaries for words that 
would not commonly appear in a standard dictionary. The exception 
dictionaries can be kept locally or used globally in a DECwrite 
workgroup. Hyphenation can also be controlled with discretionary hyphens.

DECwrite supports multiple language hyphenation.  For example, French and 
German may be used within the same document. Supported language 
hyphenation includes: Dutch, English (American and British), French, 
Spanish, Italian, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Portuguese, Finnish, and 
Danish. 

DECwrite allows users to verify and correct spelling in multiple 
languages. For example, when French and German are used within a 
document, words in those languages are also spell checked if the French 
and German optional lexicons are added to the system. Optional language 
lexicons are available (refer to the System Support Addendum for further 
information).

In addition the user may verify and correct word usage and access an 
electronic thesaurus for American English.

DECwrite emulates several keyboard styles including Gold Key for WPS-PLUS 
compatibility, EVE, EDT, and EMACS for technical users and a DECwrite 
specific keyboard interface.

LiveLink

DECwrite includes a LiveLink capability which allows the user to link a 
variety of supported applications and their data to DECwrite documents. 
Data that is linked to DECwrite becomes part of the DECwrite document and 
may be automatically updated when the document is next edited. 
Conversely, updates can be controlled by the user so that they occur only 
when desired. Links to applications can be modified or deleted by the 
user at any time.

DECwrite can link to data wherever it exists in the network as long as 
the user has privileges to access the data. Links can be specified with 
several file location types. These include: with the document, in a 
private library, in a network library, and in a system library. This file 
type location tells DECwrite where to look for the linked data and how 
the compound document should be packaged for mailing.

Applications which can be LiveLinked to DECwrite include:

DECdecision (Optional Software, refer to the System Support Addendum)

DECchart (included with DECwrite and DECdecision)

DECwrite Equation Editor (included with DECwrite)

Links to DECdecision

DECdecision is a VMS workstation-based decision support application that 
runs under VMS DECwindows and is comprised of four major software 
components: 

oo Access, for ad-hoc queries 

oo Calc, for analyzing financial and business data

oo Chart, for generating business graphs 

oo Builder, for recording and automating repetitive tasks across 
  applications

DECwrite can live link to any of these components to combine tables, 
charts, text, and graphics into one document.

Links to Data

In addition, it is possible to link to other DECwrite documents, to 
DECwindows Paint files, to DDIF pictures and images, or to final form 
data such as encapsulated PostScript files.

Converters

DECwrite utilizes the CDA converter architecture to interchange data with 
other applications. The converter architecture assures that a variety of 
formats can be converted to DDIF, Digital's Document Interchange Format, 
which is DECwrite's file format.

The converters included with DECwrite include a two-way DX converter 
which allows WPS-PLUS documents to be brought into, and written out of 
DECwrite, and a one way TEXT converter for converting ASCII text into 
DDIF. 

DECwrite also includes WK1, DIF, CALC$GRD, and ASCII Tabular converters 
allowing data from these formats to be imported into DECchart.

Additional converters are available through the CDA Converter Library for 
VMS (Refer to the System Support Addendum for further information).
  
Text Styles

DECwrite allows users to create text styles for the following types of 
elements: 

^ Paragraphs

^ Titles

^ Lists

^ Footnotes

^ Table of contents

^ Indexes

Users have full formatting control through the use of styles.  By 
modifying the style attributes of text elements, the user can create 
other styles such as abstracts and subheads.

Users may copy and then modify the default styles supplied with DECwrite, 
or they may create new styles totally on their own. These user-defined 
styles are linked to documents and may be used in any number of 
documents. In addition, style files may be shared among users.

This method of applying styles to elements allows the document content to 
remain separate from the document format. The user has total control over 
document appearance. Style information is entered into fill-in-the-blank 
style sheets. These style sheets allow a user to change point sizes, 
fonts, leading, justification modes and the other text style attributes 
of elements. 

Document appearance is automatically modified when the user changes the 
definition of a style. A user can give an element a new style at any 
time. For example, a user can change all main heads into subheads by 
simply applying a subhead style. Styles may be changed globally which 
makes DECwrite an appropriate product for long documents.

When local changes are desired, such as bolding a word, the user may 
utilize the bold key, the type menu, or the text attributes box which 
lists a variety of rendition attributes such as fonts, pointsizes, slant, 
etc. This gives the user flexibility in making quick one-time changes 
versus global style changes.

Page Composition and Pagination

DECwrite provides a variety of layout functions for text, pages, and 
documents. Text styles are discussed separately above.  Pages are 
formatted through page styles. Page styles can be defined for single or 
double-sided pages. Any number of page styles can be linked into a 
document for maximum layout flexibility.

Items which appear repetitively throughout a document such as running 
heads and feet, logos, and page or column rules can be stored as part of 
page styles and are automatically placed on each page.

A user may choose to create the page layouts of a document through a 
dialogue box or to interactively create page layouts for specific pages. 
DECwrite automatically links text flows from column to column and page to 
page, or a user may connect text flows in a non-contiguous fashion for 
documents such as newsletters. 

The formatting capabilities that are provided with DECwrite include:

^ Automatic pagination with auto page numbering

^ Running headers and footers which may contain graphics or text

^ Up to 100 columns per page with the ability to freely mix a variable 
  number of columns per page, e.g., two columns at the top of a page and 
  three at the bottom

^ Hyphenation according to dictionary or algorithm

^ Alignment (justified, ragged-right, ragged-left, or centered)

^ Vertical justification

^ Widow and orphan control

^ Manual kerning 

^ Font scaling from 2-300 point type in .01 point increments

^ Support for the ISO-Latin 1 character set 

^ Macros for user-defined functions

^ Hierarchical lists and sublists with automatic "numbering" (numeric, 
  alphabetic or characters) and user-controlled indents 

^ Automatic numbering of sections, chapters, headings, paragraphs, lists, 
  sublists, footnotes, endnotes, and appendices

^ Automatic cross-referencing
              
^ Numeric references for footnotes. Superscripting of footnote references 
  automatically generated

^ Sidenotes

^ Redlining, change bars and update pages

^ Spell Corrector, Usage Alert, (American English only) and Electronic 
  Thesaurus (American English only)

^ Generation of table of contents and index (up to four levels for 
  entries)

^ Right, left, center, and decimal tabs

^ Equation editor

^ LiveLinks to other supported applications

^ Ability to mix portrait adn landscape pages within a document 

Link to Document

DECwrite includes a Link to Document function which allows the user to 
link files together to form a complete document. Chapters and pages are 
correctly numbered and a table of contents or index may be generated for 
the entire document. This feature allows users to work on different 
sections of a document and then easily combine those into a consecutively 
numbered document. This feature allows DECwrite to be utilized in a 
workgroup.

Graphics Editor

DECwrite includes an object-oriented graphics editor which contains the 
following objects - line, square, rectangle, circle, ellipse, arc, 
polygon and polyline. Objects may be filled with patterns or shaded, and 
their outlines may be solid, dotted, dashed, or a pattern. Objects may 
also be drawn in a wide variety of line weights. A freehand drawing tool 
is also provided. 

Annotation arrows with filled, open, double, or single arrowheads can be 
easily applied to drawings or on top of images. Text labels may be placed 
next to the arrows to identify parts of a drawing. 

All graphic objects, including text labels, can be sized and scaled 
visually, to a percentage, or to exact dimensions. Alignment, duplication 
and space distribution features allow the user to easily create diagrams, 
schematics, flowcharts, and so on.

Graphics can be placed anywhere within a document including on top of or 
underneath text or in running heads and feet. Graphics may be placed in 
frames which can be anchored to various reference points in text or to a 
particular place on a page, including the margin.

DECchart

The DECchart component is an easy to use and easy to learn data charting 
application that allows users to create professional business graphics 
for their compound documents.  Users need only specify two things, the 
data they would like to chart and the chart style they would like to use.  
A chart is automatically generated.  

DECchart features include:

^ Nine predefined chart types: Bar, Column, Line, Pie, Area, Scatter, 
  Hi-Lo, Histogram, Combination

^ Up to 45 chart style variations from which to choose

^ Ability to modify predefined chart styles to create user defined chart 
  styles

^ Import data from: Lotus 1-2-3, DECalc and DECalc-PLUS, DECgraph, DIF, 
  and ASCII files, and tables from DECdecision

^ Easy to use worksheet interface for data entry, modification, and 
  manipulation (cut, copy, and paste data in the worksheet) 

^ Automatic trend line generation for scatter charts

^ Graphic annotation, overlay: text, lines, rectangles, and arrowheads 
  anywhere on a chart for emphasis and customization

^ Color support, assigning color attributes to: axes, baseline, frame, 
  grids, legend, tags, tick marks, column and bar fills, and overlay 
  objects.

^ Modification of chart attributes including: axes, baseline, data 
  values, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, drop shadows, bar 
  spacing, and bar overlap

^ Modification of text attributes, changing: font size, family, weight, 
  and slant

^ File flexibility; saving data, chart style, chart overlay, and color 
  selections separately or save everything together

^ Selectable fill patterns, line patterns, marker types, and attributes

^ Customization with user preferences

^ Ability to move and resize overlay objects

Images and Graphic Formats

DECwrite can link to images scanned in with the VAXimage Scanning 
Application for VMS 1.0 and the MD-300 Scanner or can import TIFF images 
via an optional converter (refer to the System Support Addendum for 
further information on the CDA Converter Library for VMS).

Image files created with DECwindows Paint can also be linked into 
DECwrite. Once these images are in a DECwrite document they can be 
annotated, scaled, or cropped.

Encapsulated PostScript files may be linked into DECwrite. These graphics 
are not displayed on the screen but the space they occupy is shown and 
they are printed correctly. Optional graphic converters are available in 
the CDA Converter Library for VMS (refer to the System Support Addendum 
for further information).

Document Styles

DECwrite includes thirteen pre-defined document styles - example, letter, 
manual, memo, Mil Spec, newsletter, price list, report, portrait slide, 
landscape slide, technical slide, technical journal, and telephone 
directory.  These document styles can be used as is with other documents 
or they can be easily modified by the user to suit any specifications.

High Quality Output

DECwrite provides high-quality output to DIGITAL PostScript printers such 
as the ScriptPrinter (LN03R), the PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40, and the 
PrintServer 40 Plus.

DECchart can output to the PostScript printers listed above.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 25.F7.00-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System and (necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.F7.00-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: Q*-VVFA*-**
Software Media: Q*-VVFAA-H*
Software Documentation: Q*-VVFAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VVFA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a user/activity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies contact    
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available for more information on these 
or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD.


DECwrite, LiveLink, CDA, DECdecision, VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, 
VAXstation, VAXserver, DECwindows, Printserver 20, Printserver 
40, Printserver 40 Plus, LN03, Scriptprinter and GOLD KEY are 
trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

Lotus 1-2-3 is a trademark of Lotus Development Corporation
PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

Usage Alert, Electronic Thesaurus, International Hyphenators, and 
International CorrectSpell licensed from Houghton Mifflin 
Company.  Copyright 1985, 1987, 1988 by Houghton Mifflin.  German 
1985, 1987 by Langenscheidt K.G. French in cooperation with 
Libraire Larousse.  Italian 1988 by Nicola Zanichelli.  All 
rights reserved. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,580,241, 4,724,523 and 
4,771,401.  Canadian Pat. No. 1,203,916.  Thesaurus U.S. Pat. No. 
4,724,523.  English based upon The American Heritage Dictionary.  
Thesaurus based upon Roget's II Thesaurus.  Reproduction or 
disassembly of embodied computer programs or algorithms 
prohibited.

July 1989
BH-MJ95A-TE

    
