VAX DOCUMENT, Version 1.2                                         SPD 27.55.03

DESCRIPTION

VAX DOCUMENT is a technical publishing system designed to aid VMS users in 
the production of high quality documentation with integrated text and 
graphics.  It is a tool to automate and manage the entire process of 
creating technical documentation from the first entry of written material 
to final printed output.

It is designed for use by members of the team of people who contribute to a 
technical document during its life cycle; engineers, writers, editors, or 
final production specialists. Facilities are provided to create, maintain, 
revise, format, and print complex technical documents efficiently.

Features

Generic Markup Language

VAX DOCUMENT is a device-independent generic markup language for entering 
source text and markup instructions into ASCII text files. Using any VMS 
editor, the writer creates a documentation source file, enters the text, 
and inserts markup commands (tags) that label the text elements.  Text 
elements determine the structure of the document and refer to such things 
as headers, lists or tables. 

The markup tags have no specific formatting information. DOCUMENT stores 
the formatted information in a separate file that is used when the 
documentation source file is processed.

Markup tags enable the writer to include graphic files in the final output 
document. VAX DOCUMENT supports sixel graphic files for the LN03 or LN03 
PLUS printers and PostScript (R) graphic files for the LPS40 or LN03R 
printers.  PostScript graphic files must conform to the Encapsulated 
PostScript File Format published by Adobe Systems Incorporated.(TM)

The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor can be used in conjunction with VAX 
DOCUMENT to simplify the creation of documentation source files and to 
interactively debug the markup code. 

Multiple Document Designs and Styles

VAX DOCUMENT supports a variety of document types and designs. The document 
type refers to the structure and text elements associated with a particular 
document, for example a user manual, military specification, or letter.  A 
design denotes a variation in the style of a document type and refers to 
such elements as running heads, running feet, and the type faces and sizes 
for titles, headings and notes. VAX DOCUMENT provides document types and 
designs for:

SOFTWARE - The SOFTWARE document type can be used for producing user 
manuals containing software-specific information.  This document type 
provides many software-specific features such as: a set of tags to draw 
keypad diagrams, a set of tags to format system messages, and a structured 
set of tags (called templates) to document software commands, routines, and 
programming language statements. DOCUMENT also provides a design for 
specifications, as well as designs which are similar to those which DIGITAL 
uses to produce its own documentation.

MILITARY SPECIFICATIONS - The MILSPEC document type can be used for 
producing military specifications according to military standards.  It 
includes a front page with a title and subtitle, a two-column list of 
signatures and a listing of information about the specification.

A design is provided to produce documents requiring security 
classifications, numbering of figures and tables by section number, 20 
heading levels, one to four line running titles, single-line running feet, 
and the ability to use proportionally spaced fonts within code examples.  
This design is available in double-spaced format for draft documents.

MANUALS - The MANUAL document type can be used for documenting 
chapter-oriented material such as a book. DOCUMENT provides designs for 
primer, guide, and reference manuals.

OVERHEADS - The OVERHEADS document type lets the user produce overhead 
slides for transparencies or camera-ready masters for 35mm slides. This 
document type provides features specific to presentation slides, such as 
automatic numbering of slides, title, topic, running heads and feet, and 
the capability to control the size of text. 

LETTERS - The LETTER document type can be used for producing a personal or 
business letter, or interoffice memos.  The doctype includes markup tags 
for an inside and outside address, salutation, closing and enclosures.

ARTICLES - The ARTICLE document type provides many tags specific to 
articles, such as author information, back notes, bibliography reference 
sections, and an acknowledgment section. The design is in two column format 
in size 8 1/2 x 11.

REPORTS - The REPORT document type provides features useful for producing 
chapter-oriented material (such as a book) or nonchapter-oriented material 
(such as a report or a study). It includes a front page with lines for 
sign-off signatures, outlining tags, and the capability to control numbered 
or unnumbered heads, running heads and running feet, and sequential or 
chapter-oriented page numbering.  Designs are provided for two-column text 
and for text that uses the full page width.

Customizable Document Designs and Styles

The system administrator or book designer can customize the document types 
and/or designs provided with VAX DOCUMENT. Although the user cannot change 
the fundamental layout of most text elements, a variety of design 
parameters can be changed. These include:

oo   Parameters which control basic page dimensions

oo   Fonts for text elements

oo   Vertical spacing around text elements

oo   Rule thickness

oo   Default text for element identifiers

In addition, the positioning of certain text elements, such as figure 
captions, can be changed.

Refer to the VAX DOCUMENT documentation for a complete list of DIGITAL 
supported modifications to document types and designs.

Page Composition and Pagination Software

VAX DOCUMENT provides a powerful and sophisticated text formatter. The 
capabilities that it provides include:

oo   Automatic numbering of headings, sections, lists, sublists, chapters, 
    appendices

oo   Automatic pagination with page numbering

oo   Running headers and footers

oo   Footnotes

oo   Hyphenation and justification (right-justified or ragged-right)
              
oo   Complex multi-page tables and figures

oo   Multi-column output

oo   Horizontal rules, revision (change) bars, and update pages

oo   Automatic generation of table of contents and index

oo   Automatic cross referencing

oo   Kerning and variable leading

oo   Full Multi-National Character Set

oo   Formatting of complex mathematical equations; from simple in-line 
    equations to complex matrices

Complete Bookbuilding Facilities

VAX DOCUMENT contains software for processing a set of files to build an 
entire book, including a table of contents and index. The information 
required to build a book is contained in a user-created generic markup file 
which lists the names, the location, and the sequence of all the files.

High Quality Output

VAX DOCUMENT can be used to produce high quality output with merged text 
and graphics for printing on the LN03, LN03 PLUS, LN03R and LPS40 printers.

PostScript output is produced by taking advantage of the fonts resident in 
the LN03R and LPS40 printers.

Fonts for the LN03 and LN03 PLUS printers are available from the DCS 
Library.

Monospaced Output

VAX DOCUMENT can produce output for printing or displaying on any DIGITAL 
character-cell terminal and monospaced line printer.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 27.55.03-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

VMS Operating System 

Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 27.55.03-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VEEA*-**
Software Media: QA-VEEA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VEEAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VEEA*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media refer to the appropriate price book.
                 
SOFTWARE LICENSING 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information of the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility Manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY
 
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

June 1989
AE-KN49D-TE

