VAX RMS JOURNALING, VERSION 5.2                          SPD 27.58.03

PRODUCT DESCRIPTION

VAX RMS Journaling helps maintain the data integrity of RMS files in the 
event of a number of failure scenarios.  Journaling helps to protect RMS 
file data from becoming lost or inconsistent.

VAX RMS Journaling provides the following three methods of journaling:

oo   After-image (AI) journaling provides the ability to redo a series of 
    modifications to a data file.  This type of journaling helps recover  
    lost or corrupted files. Such a recovery restores the contents of the 
    file from the point of the latest backup copy of that file.

oo   Before-image (BI) journaling provides the ability to undo a series of 
    modifications to a data file.  This type of journaling allows a file to 
    be returned to a previous known state.  This is useful in the event 
    that a file is updated with bad or erroneous data.

oo   Recovery unit journaling helps maintain transaction integrity. A 
    transaction is a series of RMS record operations made to one or more 
    files.  A transaction does not complete unless all of the operations 
    are completed.

Journaling is applied on a file-by-file basis.  A file may be marked for 
after-image, before-image, recovery unit journaling, or any combination of 
each.  Within a given application, any combination of journaling methods 
may be used.

VAX RMS Journaling stores the information necessary for data recovery in 
files known as journal files.  Multiple files may use the same journal 
file.

Supported File Organizations

All RMS file organizations are supported by VAX RMS Journaling. Any 
sequential, relative, or Prolog 3 indexed file can use journaling. However, 
the following restrictions apply:

oo   Prolog 1 and Prolog 2 indexed files are not supported by VAX RMS 
    Journaling.

oo   Sequential files are limited to a record size of 32667 bytes.

oo   Files marked for recovery unit journaling may not be written with the 
    DCL WRITE command.

oo   Stream files cannot be modified in shared mode in a recovery unit.

oo   Sequential files having VFC record format do not allow shared access 
    for recovery unit journaling.

When using recovery unit journaling with shared fixed-length sequential 
files, any abort processing will overwrite records added to the recovery 
unit with zero bytes (nulls).  This occurs because the record cannot be 
deleted from the file.

Every file that uses journaling must reside on Files-11 structure level 2 
disks. All journal files must also reside on a Files-11 structure level 2 
disk.  It is recommended that journal files used for after-image journaling 
reside on a disk that is different from the disk used for the files that 
are using those journal files.  Journaling across a network or to a tape 
device is not supported.

Marking Files for Journaling

VAX RMS Journaling is enabled on a file-by-file basis.  Files marked for 
after-image, before-image, and recovery unit journaling are enabled by 
using qualifiers to the DCL SET FILE command.  Any combination of 
qualifiers may be used with a particular SET FILE command or series of SET 
FILE commands.  Files are unmarked for journaling by a similar SET FILE 
command, but with a negated qualifier (the /NO qualifier).

The most recent SET FILE command for a given file overrides all previous 
SET FILE commands for that file.

Successful marking of an RMS file for journaling requires exclusive access 
to the file specified in the SET FILE command.  Exclusive access means the 
RMS file being marked for journaling must be closed; that is, application 
programs accessing that file must be shut down until the file is 
successfully marked for journaling.

No modifications to application programs are required for long-term 
(after-image or before-image) journaling.  Once a file has been marked for 
such journaling, journal information will be written to the journal file 
each time the file is modified.  The file must have been opened subsequent 
to the issuance of the SET FILE command that marked the file for VAX RMS 
Journaling.  All modifications to the file are recorded in the journal file 
until the file is unmarked for journaling.

Modifications to application programs are  required for recovery unit 
journaling.  At a minimum, the program must specify the start and end of a 
recovery unit, using the recovery unit system services.  To modify a file 
marked for recovery unit journaling, the RMS record operations must be 
performed within a recovery unit.

Journal File Maintenance

After-image and before-image journal files require periodic maintenance. 
Because journal files can enlarge indefinitely, but must reside on a single 
volume set, occasional remarking of a file for journaling and all of the 
associated operations are required.  This implies that applications 
accessing RMS data files marked for after-image or before-image, or both, 
journaling must be stopped periodically for journal file maintenance 
operations.
  
Recovering Data - Long-Term Journaling

In the case of long-term (either after-image or before-image) journaling, 
data recovery is done using the RMS Recovery Utility. Recovery is on a 
file-by-file basis and must be explicitly requested; it is not done 
automatically. The RMS Recovery Utility is invoked at DCL level to either 
roll forward or roll back changes to the file.  The Recovery Utility 
requires exclusive access to the file being recovered. Changes may be 
rolled forward or rolled backward until a time specified by the user.

To roll forward a file  and redo changes, there must be a VMS backup copy 
of the file on disk.  This copy must have been made after the file was 
marked for after-image journaling.

Recovering Data - Recovery Unit Journaling

No user intervention is required to roll back a recovery unit that is 
incomplete.   The rollback of an incomplete transaction is started and 
completed automatically.

Interaction with Backup

To recover data using after-image journaling, a backup copy of the file 
must be available.  This copy must be made with the Backup Utility 
(BACKUP); a copy of the file made with the COPY or CONVERT command cannot 
be used.  A backup copy of the file must be made after the the SET 
FILE/AI_JOURNAL command is issued but before the file is opened for update.  
BACKUP requires exclusive access to files being backed up.  No user or 
application program may access the file until BACKUP is finished.

The use of BACKUP/RECORD is recommended. If the file is then rolled 
forward, the modifications that have been made since the most recent backup 
are applied.

If a backup copy of a file is rolled forward with the RMS Recovery Utility, 
you must remark the file for after-image journaling with the SET 
FILE/AI_JOURNAL command. A backup copy of that file must be made after it 
has again been marked for after-image journaling and before application 
updates are allowed.

A backup copy of the file must be remarked for journaling if it is to be 
used in place of the original file.

Interaction with VAX Volume Shadowing

VAX Volume Shadowing may be used in conjunction with after-image 
journaling.  It is not, however, a complete replacement for after-image 
journaling.  After-image journaling helps recover data in the following 
cases not addressed by VAX Volume Shadowing:

oo   Mistaken deletion of a file by a system user or operator

oo   Corruption of the file system pointers

oo   RMS file corruption due to a software error or incomplete bucket write 
    operations to to an indexed file

Failures Not Addressed by RMS Recovery Unit Journaling

Recovery unit journaling does not provide recovery in the following cases 
when a multi-block bucket write operation to an indexed file is in 
progress, leaving the bucket in the indexed file in a corrupt state:

oo   Failure of the VAX host during a multi-block write operation, such as a 
    VMS crash, halt, power failure, or system shutdown.

oo   Permanent loss of path to the disk during a multi-block write 
    operation.

oo   Cancellation of a multi-block write operation in progress.  This occurs 
    only in disks using DUDRIVER.  Other disk drivers ignore the 
    cancellation of I/O and are not affected by this.

After-image journaling must be used to recover from the failed multi-block 
write operation.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 
25.01.xx) for hardware requirements and supported processors.

OPTIONAL HARDWARE

None

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid and 
licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions.  The HARDWARE 
REQUIREMENTS sections of this product's Software Product Description and 
the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) list 
any special hardware required by this product.

*   VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster 
    Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet, 
    and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

The VMS Operating System

VMS Tailoring

For VMS V5.x, the following VMS classes are required for full functionality 
of this layered product:
oo   VMS Required Saveset

For more information about VMS classes and tailoring, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

None

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of this 
product may be different from the minimum requirements for the current 
version.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VDVA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VDVAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VDVA*-**

*   Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.
The above information is valid at the time of release.  Please contact your 
local DIGITAL office for the most up-to-date information.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information about the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Utility Manual of the VMS operating system documentation 
set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

June 1989
AE-JG40D-TE
