PRODUCT NAME:  Remote System Manager, Version 2.2       SPD 29.59.02

DESCRIPTION

Remote System Manager (RSM) is a VMS and ULTRIX layered product that permits a 
system manager to efficiently manage a number of computer systems. 

RSM uses the DECnet network to automate the recurring system management tasks 
of: 

^ Software distribution and installation (both operating systems and 
  applications)

^ System administration

For flexibility in configuration, RSM is available as three separately 
licensed products described below:

RSM VMS Server 

This product maintains RSM Client software and administrative 
information, maintains libraries of operating system and application 
software, directs the installation of software, schedules file backups, 
and receives file backups.

Additionally for RSM VMS Clients, the Server provides for the remote 
maintenance of user accounts, directories, and DECnet proxies.

The RSM Server license includes the right to install the RSM VMS Client 
on the same node.

RSM server software can be installed on a cluster and configured to use 
the distributed resources available to all nodes that share the cluster 
alias. Alternatively, the server software can be configured to operate on 
a single, specified node in the cluster.

Configuring the RSM server for full VAXcluster system operation allows 
more efficient use of cluster-wide resources, providing redundancy and 
load balancing with minimum manager preparation and effort.  In this 
configuration, all members of the cluster, who share the cluster alias, 
perform some of the work associated with RSM operations.

Configuring the RSM server for operation on a single cluster-member 
restricts the use of RSM and the associated workload to a single node.

RSM VMS Client 

This product provides VMS systems with the ability to receive software 
distributed from an RSM Server. This product also permits files to be 
backed up to and restored from an RSM Server.

RSM ULTRIX Client 

This product provides ULTRIX systems with the ability to receive software 
distributed from an RSM Server. This product also permits files to be 
backed up to and restored from an RSM Server.

Typical networks would have one or more RSM Servers each serving a number 
of Clients.

Features

Software Distribution and Installation

The Software Distribution Services (SDS) component of the RSM Server 
performs the installation of software to RSM Clients.  RSM stores copies 
of operating systems and applications for both VMS and ULTRIX systems in 
a library on the RSM Server and uses the DECnet network to automatically 
distribute software to the RSM Client during the installation process.

Note:	 Software that is installed using SDS remains subject to any 
         licensing restrictions associated with that software.

Application Software Installation

RSM provides the ability to take applications from an RSM Server library 
and install those applications on one or more RSM Clients.  Application 
software is installed at the RSM Client using the standard installation 
utility for that system (for VMS systems, the VMSINSTAL utility; for 
ULTRIX systems, the setld utility). 

RSM's Application Sets feature provides for the creation and manipulation 
of "sets" of related applications. The concept of Application Sets makes 
performing operations on an entire set of applications as easy as 
performing operations on a single application. 

RSM provides the ability to manage and enforce application prerequisites. 
This feature permits applications to be stored in the library along with 
information on the software prerequisites for the application.

When RSM is requested to install this application, RSM automatically 
verifies that RSM has installed all of the software prerequisites on the 
Client. If RSM finds that any prerequisite software is not present on the 
Client, RSM automatically installs the required prerequisite software. 

Restrictions

For VMS

SDS can install any VMS application that can be installed with the 
VMSINSTAL utility and conforms to the following rules:

^ The application's installation procedure must conform to the guidelines  
  presented in the VMS Developer's Guide to VMSINSTAL.

^ The application must be installable while VMSINSTAL is running as a 
  noninteractive process. In addition, the application must be 
  installable using a VMSINSTAL auto-answer file.

SDS executes VMSINSTAL as a detached process. Therefore, any application 
installation procedure that performs terminal-related activities (such as 
SET TERMINAL) or modifies its execution based on process mode (such as 
INTERACTIVE or BATCH) may fail. 

The application installation procedure must not depend on local 
conditions such as node name or pre-existing files.

For ULTRIX:

SDS can install any ULTRIX application that can be installed with the 
setld utility.

The setld program does not permit the installation of subsets which 
cannot fit into the available disk space.

All NFS file systems should be dismounted before using setld with the -a, 
-d, and -1 options.

Operating System Software Installation

RSM can install a VMS or ULTRIX operating system on an RSM Client. Using 
this capability, managers of RSM Servers can take a VAXstation, MicroVAX, 
or VAXserver, connect it to an Ethernet network, and have a preconfigured 
operating system transmitted over the Ethernet and installed on the RSM 
Client.

With VMS the user prepares a "boot disk" which is actually a file 
containing  a virtual disk image of a minimal VMS operating system, used 
for remote booting the client.  The user selects a FETCHed operating 
system from the SDS library for remote booting; it must be a version of 
VMS which supports the system to be initial system loaded (ISLed).

Restrictions

For the installation of operating system software, both the RSM Server 
and its Client must be on the same Local Area Network or Extended Local 
Area Network.

Approximately 15,000 blocks of disk space should be reserved for storing 
the remote boot disk image that RSM uses to perform an initial system 
load (ISL) on the management server.

File Backup and Restore

The Backup and Restore Services (BRS) component provides scheduled file 
backups from RSM Clients to RSM Servers. BRS also has the ability to 
restore files that it backed up.

Backups are scheduled by creating an RSM Server database entry for each 
backup task required for each Client. This entry defines all of the 
attributes of the backup task, such as the frequency of the backup 
(daily, weekly, monthly), the style of backup (incremental or full), the 
files to be backed up, and whether to store the backed up data on disk or 
tape.

Restrictions

When restoring to an RSM Client from a tape backup, RSM copies the 
information to be restored to an RSM Server disk prior to transferring 
this information to the RSM Client. There must be sufficient disk space 
on the RSM Server for this operation.

In order for RSM to perform an image restore of an RSM Client, that 
Client must have at least two writable storage devices.

System Administration

The Client Administrative Services (CAS) component of the RSM Server 
provides remote management of user accounts, directories, and proxies on 
RSM VMS Clients. It provides a mechanism for maintaining consistent 
logical names, symbol names, and DECnet node names across the set of RSM 
VMS clients.  Also, it distributes VMS license information starting with 
Version 5.0 and checks security of DECnet and guest accounts on RSM 
clients.

Restrictions

The mechanism for maintaining consistent logical names, symbols, and 
DECnet node names is provided by commands in a menu interface which allow 
a master copy of these databases to be distributed from the RSM server to 
specified RSM VMS clients.

There is no command line interface to this component of RSM.

Additional Features

RSM Server Hierarchy 

A single RSM Server can control the operation of up to four other RSM 
Servers. This feature allows centralized scheduling of RSM operations 
while other RSM Servers contain the SDS library or receive the backup 
output files.

Menu and Command Line User Interface 

This version of RSM supports both a menu-style and a command line 
interface. The menu interface is designed to aid the user in the correct 
structuring of RSM command lines.

Groups 

In many situations, a number of computer systems perform similar tasks. 
These systems typically use the same software and can operate on the same 
backup schedule. RSM's Group feature permits all of these systems to be 
referenced by a single group name. RSM operations on a Group are 
performed on each system in the group.

Management of LMF Licenses 

RSM provides the ability to create and maintain a VMS License Management 
database on the RSM VMS Server for each VMS Client. RSM can then transmit 
this database to the VMS Client and install it as a Secondary LMF 
Database. This feature requires that both the Server and Client be 
executing VMS at least at V5.0.
    
Configuration

Any given RSM Server should not be configured to support more than forty 
RSM Clients.  

RSM supports only a single level of Server hierarchy. Each RSM 
environment must contain one and only one management server. A management 
server can support a maximum of four other servers.  The other servers 
can be target servers, library servers, combination target and library 
servers, or any combination of these.  If you need to add more servers, 
you must partition the client population into distinct management 
domains.

RSM makes extensive use of facilities provided by the operating system on 
which it runs, causing RSM to be highly dependent upon the configuration 
of the base operating system. Operating system related files should not 
be moved from where they were placed during the installation process. 
Also search lists should not be created which prevent RSM from accessing 
the correct copy of these files in the standard locations. All 
modifications to operating system data files (i.e., DECnet databases, 
user authorization files, etc.) should be done using the operating system 
provided utilities or as described in the appropriate documentation. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 25.59.02-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

The VAX Distributed Name Service (DNS) (SPD 28.79.xx) must be installed 
within the network and accessible, via DECnet, from RSM Server nodes.

RSM Clients require that there be at least one RSM Server in the network.

For VAX Systems:

VMS Operating System or MicroVMS Operating System

DECnet-VAX

For ULTRIX Systems:

ULTRIX-32 Operating System or ULTRIX Worksystem Software

DECnet-ULTRIX

*    Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.59.02-x) for 
     availability and required versions of prerequisite software. 

ORDERING INFORMATION

VMS Server

Software Licenses: QL-B13A*-**
Software Media: QA-B13A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-B13AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-B13A*-**

VMS Client

Software Licenses: QL-B14A*-**
Software Media: None (1)
Software Documentation: None (2)
Software Product Services: None (3) 

ULTRIX Client

Software Licenses: Q****-**
Software Media: None (1)
Software Documentation: None (2) 
Software Product Services: None (3)

(1) Client is distributed on the VMS Server media
(2) Client information covered in the documentation for the VMS Server
(3) Client Services provided in the Services offering for the VMS Server

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
  licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

The licensing terms are based on clusterwide licensing in which the 
license applies to a purchase power rating rather than a specific CPU.  
Customers continue to receive the right-to-use software on nodes within a 
cluster system.  The RSM server must be licensed on all members of the 
VAXcluster system that share the cluster alias.  In this case, the 
VAXcluster license would be restricted to the rating purchased rather 
than the total rating of the VAXcluster system, unless the entire 
VAXcluster system shared the cluster alias. 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

The RSM VMS Server and RSM VMS Client layered products support the VMS 
License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the VMS 
Operating System documentation set. 

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local DIGITAL office. 

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD.


