PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Software Performance Monitor,     SPD 27.56.08

DESCRIPTION

VAX SPM is a software performance management facility for VAX and
VAXcluster systems. VAX SPM can collect, archive, display, analyze,
report, and graph performance information useful in system tuning, 
trend analysis, and workload forecasting. This information includes 
resource utilization and load balance data for single node, multi-CPU,
and VAXcluster systems. VAX SPM software is designed for use by system 
managers and system programmers.
                                                         
VAX SPM Collector provides:

   ^A flexible facility for collecting and archiving performance data.
    Data collection may be collected using a variety of user-specified 
    qualifiers and parameters.  The user can start and stop data collection 
    for all nodes in a VAXcluster or from remote nodes in a distributed 
    system from a single terminal, and archive all the performance data into 
    a single history file.  Note that a VAX SPM or VAX SPM Collector license 
    is required for each node where data is collected.

 VAX SPM Facility provides:

   ^The Collector and diagnostic tools that include:
  
   ^A knowledge based interactive ANALYZER which detects and analyzes 
    performance bottlenecks from data collected by the VAX SPM 
    Collector. The ANALYZER's knowledge was gathered from VMS 
    performance analysts and is organized into decision trees.

    VIDEO DISPLAYS which dynamically show a variety of performance
    statistics using bar charts, Kiviat plots, Hot Files and numerical data.  
    These can display data for a single node, or summary information
    for all nodes or accessible disks (up to eight concurrently) in a 
    VAXcluster system. The latter is particularly useful for balancing 
    the workload across several nodes or disks. Single node data may 
    be displayed for the currently running system, or played back 
    from a log file; VAXcluster system data must be from the currently
    running system or history files.
                                         
    A REPORT and GRAPH facility that contain a level of detail necessary
    to quantify system resource utilization (CPU, memory, and I/O), 
    and identify system performance bottlenecks. Proper analysis of 
    these may reveal under utilized resources that can be traded 
    against a bottleneck. Graphs and reports of data collected over 
    long periods of time show long-term trends in resource 
    utilization. These are helpful in planning future hardware 
    acquisitions.
  
    A CHARGE facility that generates a report of charges based upon system
    and resource utilization with user specified resource pricing.

    A SYSTEM PC facility that delineates CPU usage. 

    A DISK ANALYSIS facility that describes disk volume utilization and
    identifies files contributing to disk fragmentation.

    A HOT FILES facility that provides detailed file level statistics
    necessary for disk load balancing. 

    An EVENT TRACE facility that is suitable for collecting "custom"
    performance data and testing the performance of system software.  
      
  
Features
            
System Tuning
                    
VAX SPM collects, analyzes, and reports performance data pertinent to 
analyzing and tuning a VAX system. This includes: system configuration 
data, system parameters, resource utilization statistics for CPU, I/O,
and memory (including swapping, paging, and modified page writing), 
devices, scheduling, locking, file system, lock manager, SCS data,
and process statistics. The user can specify start and stop time, 
sample interval, and the node(s) for which to collect data, in addition 
to specific data items.  Reports present the data in both tabular and 
graphic format (plotted against time).
                           
The Analyzer provides the ability to select a range of VAX SPM collected 
data for input to the Analyzer and the ability to step through the 
analysis displaying the results of each test and conclusion. The
Analyzer provides the ability to both display and change the 
performance thresholds that were used to reach its conclusions. The 
user can further alter the decisions of the Analyzer to explore 
different possibilities based upon experience with the system workload. 

The Analyzer also provides the ability to request more information on
how and from what VAX SPM data it reached its conclusion and includes
references to the VAX SPM reports. The Analyzer produces a report 
containing a either a suggestion for improvement or simply a report
that indicates that no problem was found during the selected analysis period.
This report also contains changes and decision modifications that the user
applied.

The VAX SPM video displays are designed to help the user investigate 
performance problems on single processors and VAXcluster systems.  
There are single node displays for: system overview, memory, CPU, 
I/O, and load balance. Once a video display begins, subcommands may 
be issued to control the display and its characteristics, 
including: select displayed processes - top 12 by node, direct 
I/O, buffered I/O, page fault, or working set size; change scaling   
factor; and viewing time.  For each node (up to eight concurrently),
VAXcluster system displays show: hard and soft page faults, 
system and task CPU time, memory and CPU utilization, and I/O rate.  

For each accessible disk (up to eight concurrently), the display 
shows: the I/O rate and disk's response time.  Multi-color displays 
are produced if an appropriate color terminal or monitor is used. 
The displays can be printed (monochrome) on an appropriate external 
graphics capable printer (e.g., LA75).
                                    
The System PC facility shows where CPU time is spent on a single 
node. The program counter and processor status longword are sampled 
and recorded in a log file.  Reports delineate CPU usage by 
system/process address space, access mode, IPL, system module, 
device driver, and user process.
                                                                 
The Event Trace facility is suitable for collecting performance 
data beyond the standard VAX SPM data.  The user defines trace 
points within the VMS Executive and writes a data collector using 
subroutines supplied by the facility.  The facility also provides 
buffer and record management routines. This facility is 
particularly suited to testing the performance of system software 
(e.g., a user written system service or device driver).
        
Disk Analysis 
                              
This facility provides detailed usage information for ODS-2 disk 
volumes: volume attributes, the amount of allocated and free space 
as well as an indication of how fragmented it is, and a list of 
files with extension headers.

Hot Files

This facility provides a real time video display of detailed file 
statistics of which files are being accessed the most. The video
display also includes the percent of I/O's that were read for these 
files. This facility is particularly suited to the location of the 
files which may be moved to alleviate a disk bottleneck.
        
Charge 
                           
The Charge facility reads multiple VMS accounting files and a disk
usage file to generate a single report of the system's resource 
utilization showing the amounts and monetary values of the resources 
consumed by each user on the system.  The report shows quantity of 
resources consumed, unit prices charged for each resource and the
total price charged for that resource.  The report prices and 
comment information are specified by the user.
               
Planning for Continued System Growth
                                           
VAX SPM collects and reports information useful to a data 
operations manager in planning for additional hardware.  Data can 
be archived in a history file, which takes less disk space than the 
original log file(s).  The data can be kept for a long period of 
time (e.g., months or years) and retrieved and printed in reports 
showing long term trends of resource utilizations and system 
behavior.  Information similar to that used for system tuning is 
kept for long term trend analysis, although typically with a longer 
sample interval.
  

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
                                
VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the 
System Support Addendum (SSA 27.56.08-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System

* Refer to the System Support Addendum (27.56.08-x) for availability
  and required versions of Prerequisite/Optional Software.  

ORDERING INFORMATION 

Full VAX SPM Facility

Software License: QL-850A*-**
Software Media: QA-850A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-850AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-850A*-**  

VAX SPM Collector 

Software License: QL-VUPA*-**
Software Media: QA-VUPA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VUPAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VUPA*-**  

  * Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available
    licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of 
DIGITAL's Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about 
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a cpu-capacity basis. 

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or 
the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies,
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more   
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software 
Warranty Addendum of this SPD.
 


June 1989
AE-R419I-TE

