
PRODUCT NAME: Terminal Server Manager, Version 1.3           SPD 27.64.04


DESCRIPTION

Terminal  Server  Manager  VMS  (TSM)  software  allows  suitably privileged 
users at a VAX host to control and observe terminal servers anywhere  in  the  
extended  local   area   network.    TSM   provides centralization  and  
increased  flexibility in configuring, monitoring and controlling DIGITAL's 
family of terminal servers.

TSM enhances V1.2 by providing management support for DIGITAL's DECserver 
550 including the CXM04 line card.
 
Features

3270 Option Software 

TSM provides support for the 3270 Option Software for the CXM04 line card. 
This line card provides capability of connectivity of 3270 class of terminals 
to systems on Ethernet.

Keyboard Mapping

This functionality enables the terminal server manager to customize 3270 
keyboard tables supplied with the 3270 Option Software by changing the way 
individual 3270 keyboard keys are mapped to DIGITAL's VT220 keys.

Wildcarding

This feature extends the wildcarding capability for server names by allowing a 
wildcard character such as * and % to replace a server name any place it 
appears in the syntax.

Management Directory

TSM provides a directory that contains  the  name,  Ethernet  address, terminal  
server type, and other fields for each server to be managed. Through the TSM 
directory, the user need only to refer to the name  of the server in order to 
gain access.

Management Partitions

Via the USE command, TSM allows the user to define  logical  groups  of 
servers.   A  command  can  then  be  executed  for all servers in the 
partition.  TSM provides a predefined partition called  ALL  that includes 
all servers in the directory.

Database Manipulation

TSM can access and manipulate the database associated with each server within   
its   jurisdiction,   including   their  characteristics  and parameters.

Volatile Characteristics

TSM manages the  volatile  characteristics  for  all  terminal  server types.

Permanent Characteristics

TSM manages permanent NVRAM characteristics  for  the  DECserver  100, 
DECserver  200,  and  MUXserver 100.  For the Ethernet Terminal Server and 
DECserver 500, TSM modifies  the  permanent  attributes  contained within the 
image files which are down-line loaded.

DECnet Database Modification

TSM automatically updates the DECnet database for servers to match the DECnet 
related information in the management directory.  Users need no longer employ a 
separate DSVCONFIG or TSVNCP configuration program.

DCL Command

TSM server and directory commands may be issued as DCL  commands;  the syntax 
follows DCL conventions.

Server Selection

TSM provides a USE command to allow selection of the server or servers to  be  
managed or the directory to be referenced.  A single server, a user specified 
group of servers (a partition), or  all  servers  known via the management 
directory can be selected with the USE command.

Command Files

Command files may be maintained outside TSM (e.g., by use of a VMS editor).   
This  command file support allows values of characteristics to be stored on the 
host, effectively creating a copy of the permanent database   that   may  be  
used  to  configure  new  servers.   Server maintenance is also enhanced by 
allowing the  terminal  server  to  be easily  box swapped, and parameters 
reset.  Up to eight parameters may be passed to TSM  command  files.   
Additionally,  command  files  may operate  on  a  single  server,  on  a  
logical group (a partition) of servers or on all servers.

Fault Management

Trouble shooting within the terminal server network is enhanced by TSM 
providing the ability to centrally read traffic status and counters in addition 
to error status and counters.  With the ``PASTHRU''  command, the  user  can  
also connect directly to the server without using TSM, allowing isolation of 
problems between TSM and the server.

A simple connectivity test to a specific server or all servers  listed in  the  
directory is provided with an informational message displayed for each  server  
not  responding.   TSM  allows  the  user  to  check periodically  for  
non-functioning  terminal  servers.   This function might be performed from 
within  a  batch  job,  to  run  without  user involvement,  but  informing  
the  appropriate  personnel  if a server connectivity problem is detected.

Via the TEST DELAY command, users can measure timing delays associated with 
data transmission to and from servers.

The TEST CONNECTION command tests the ability to submit a print job to a server 
port.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configurations as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 27.64.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System

Layered Products:

DECnet-VAX 

One of the following:

DECserver 100 
Ethernet Terminal Server 
DECserver 200 
DECserver 500 
MUXserver 100 
MUXserver 300 Remote Terminal Server for VMS

* Please refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.64.04-x) for required 
  versions of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software License: QL-VDHA*-**
Software Media: QL-VDHA*-**
Software Documentation: QL-VDHAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VDHA*-**

* Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available licenses, 
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard terms and conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, please contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This product supports the VMS License Management Facility (LMF).

License units for this product are allocated on a User/Activity basis.

For more information on the LMF refer to the VMS Operating System Software 
Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the LMF manual of the VMS Operating 
System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licenisng terms and policies, please 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

June 1989
BH-JE80E-TE
