VAXcluster Software, Version 5.2                             SPD 29.78.02

DESCRIPTION

VAXcluster Software is a System Integrated Product (SIP). It provides a 
highly integrated VMS computing environment distributed over multiple VAX 
and/or MicroVAX CPUs. This environment is called a VAXcluster system.

CPUs in a VAXcluster system can share processing, mass storage, and other 
resources under a single VMS security and management domain. Within this 
highly integrated environment, CPUs retain their independence because they 
use local, memory-resident copies of the VMS Operating System. Thus, 
clustered CPUs can boot and fail independently while benefiting from common 
resources.

Applications running on one or more CPUs in a VAXcluster system access 
shared resources in a coordinated manner. VAXcluster Software components 
synchronize access to shared resources, preventing two or more processes 
from interfering with each other when updating data. This coordination 
ensures data integrity during multiple, concurrent update transactions.

Because resources are shared, VAXcluster systems offer higher availability 
than standalone CPUs. When one CPU in a cluster fails, users can log on to 
another CPU to create a new process and continue working. Applications can 
be designed to survive the failure of one or more CPUs.

All VAXcluster systems have the following software features in common:

oo   Shared mass storage. The VMS file system allows all CPUs in a 
    VAXcluster system to share mass storage, whether the storage devices 
    are connected to a Hierarchical Storage Controller (HSC) subsystem or 
    to a CPU.

oo   Shared batch and print queues, accessible to any CPU in the VAXcluster 
    system. The VMS job controller manages clusterwide batch and print 
    queues, which can be accessed by any CPU. Jobs submitted to clusterwide 
    queues are routed to the least loaded CPU, so that the batch load is 
    evenly distributed.

oo   Access capability to all disks in the cluster by all CPUs.

oo   Process information and control available clusterwide to application 
    programs and system utilities.

oo   Automated configuration command procedure to assist in adding and 
    removing CPUs and in modifying their configuration characteristics.

oo   Dynamic Show Cluster Utility to display the status of cluster hardware 
    components and cluster communication links.

oo   Cluster-wide standard VMS system and security features.

VAXcluster System Configurations

VAXcluster Software operates in the following VAXcluster system 
configurations:

oo   CI-based VAXcluster systems, utilizing the Computer Interconnect (CI) 
    for cluster communications.

oo   Local area (Ethernet-based) VAXcluster systems, utilizing the Ethernet 
    for cluster communications.

oo   Mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems, utilizing both the CI and the 
    Ethernet for cluster communications.

The optimal VAXcluster system for any computing environment is based on 
tradeoffs of cost, functionality, and performance. Performance is 
influenced by the following factors:

oo   Applications in use

oo   Number and model of CPUs

oo   Interconnect (CI and/or Ethernet) and adapter types

oo   Disk I/O capacity and access time

oo   Number of disks being served

oo   Ethernet utilization

Configuration Rules

In local area and mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems, some CPUs perform 
specialized functions. The following terms are used to refer to those CPUs:

oo   Disk server - A disk server is a CPU that makes disks available to the 
    VAXcluster system. Disks can be served by any CPU running MSCP server 
    software.

oo   Boot server - A boot server is a disk server that down-line loads the 
    VMS operating system to satellites.

oo   Satellite - A satellite is an Ethernet-connected CPU without its own 
    local VMS system disk. A boot server down-line loads the VMS operating 
    system to the satellite over the Ethernet. Only the CPUs listed in the 
    MicroVAX and VAXstation categories in the HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS section 
    may operate as satellites.

The following general configuration rules apply to VAXcluster systems:

oo   The maximum number of CPUs supported in a VAXcluster system is 96. In 
    CI-based and mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems, the maximum number 
    of CI-connected CPUs is 16.

oo   If the Ethernet is used for cluster communications in any VAXcluster 
    system, all CPUs must be connected to the same extended Ethernet local 
    area network.

oo   A VAXcluster system may include only one Star Coupler, and all 
    CI-connected CPUs and HSC subsystems must be connected to it.

oo   A Computer Interconnect Star Coupler Expander (CISCE) may be added to a 
    Star Coupler in a CI-based or mixed-interconnect VAXcluster system to 
    increase the total combined number of CI-connected CPUs and HSC 
    subsystems to 24. The maximum number of CI-connected VAX CPUs is 16. 
    (See OPTIONAL HARDWARE section.)

oo   All VAX 6xxx, 85xx, 86xx, 87xx, and 88xx series CPUs participating in a 
    mixed-interconnect VAXcluster system must be connected to the CI.

oo   DIGITAL Storage Architecture (DSA) disk drives may be dual pathed 
    between pairs of HSC subsystems or between pairs of local controllers. 
    TA-series tape drives may be dual pathed between pairs of HSC 
    subsystems with HSC microcode revision level V3.9 or later. Such 
    dual-pathing provides both enhanced data availability and failover 
    capability. Failover occurs when one controller or cable malfunctions 
    and breaks one path. When the path breaks, the device using that path 
    automatically fails over to the other path. The failover process is 
    transparent to applications.

oo   In Dual-Host configurations,(1) the DIGITAL Small Storage Interconnect 
    (DSSI) bus must be connected either between the SII interface on both 
    CPUs or between KFQSA adapters on both CPUs. It may not be connected 
    between a KFQSA adapter on one CPU and the SII interface on the other.

The following rules apply specifically to local area (Ethernet-based) 
VAXcluster systems:

oo   CPUs use the Ethernet for cluster communications and may concurrently 
    use it for other network protocols that conform to the applicable 
    Ethernet standards, such as Ethernet V2.0, IEEE 802.2 and IEEE 802.3.

oo   A low-latency data path providing approximately 10 megabits per second 
    throughput must link all clustered CPUs.

oo   Ethernet bridges may be used to localize VAXcluster system traffic 
    should the overall network traffic be of concern.

oo   An Ethernet-based VAXcluster system may include a maximum of one of the 
    following CPUs:

    	 -   VAX 6xxx

    	 -   VAX 85xx

    	 -   VAX 86xx

    	 -   VAX 87xx

    	 -   VAX 88xx

Recommendations

DIGITAL recommends VAXcluster system configurations based on its experience 
with the VAXcluster Software Product. The customer should evaluate specific 
application dependencies and performance requirements to determine an 
appropriate configuration for the desired computing environment.  The 
requirements and recommendations are applicable at the time of release, but 
may change over time. When planning a VAXcluster system, consider the 
following recommendations:

oo   While VAXcluster systems may include any number of system disks, 
    performance and disk space should be considered in determining their 
    number. It is important to recognize that system management efforts 
    increase in proportion to the number of system disks.

oo   VAXcluster systems can provide enhanced availability by taking 
    advantage of redundant components.

oo   If possible, local area and mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems 
    should include multiple boot and disk servers to enhance availability. 
    When a server fails in configurations that include multiple servers, 
    satellite access to disks fails over to another server. Boot and disk 
    servers should be the most powerful CPUs in the cluster and should use 
    the highest-bandwidth Ethernet adapters available in the cluster.

oo   In CI-based and mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems, dual-pathing of 
    DSA disks between HSC subsystems or between local storage adapters 
    enhances availability. In local area VAXcluster systems, DSA disks can 
    be dual pathed between local storage adapters, and RF-series disks can 
    be dual pathed between CPUs in Dual-Host configurations.

oo   In CI-based and mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems that include HSC 
    subsystems, the optional VAX Volume Shadowing System Integrated Product 
    provides the following advantages:

       -   Increased data availability

       -   Enhanced read performance with multiple system and data disks

       For more information on the VAX Volume Shadowing Product, refer to 
       the VAX Volume Shadowing Software SPD 27.29.xx.

oo   Dual-Host configurations utilizing RF-series disk drives offer failover 
    and increased availability:

       -  CPUs have concurrent access to any disk on the DSSI bus.

       -  A single disk is accessed through two paths and can be served to 
          all satellites by either CPU.

       -  If either CPU fails, satellites can access their disks through 
          the remaining one.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Supported CPUs:

VAX:	VAX 6210, VAX 6220, VAX 6230, VAX 6240, VAX 6310, VAX 6320, VAX 
        6330, VAX 6340, VAX 6350, VAX 6360, VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300, 
        VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX 8530, VAX 8550, VAX 8600, VAX 8650, VAX 
        8700, VAX 8800, VAX 8810, VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

	VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785

MicroVAX:	MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000, MicroVAX 3300, MicroVAX 3400, 
                MicroVAX 3500, MicroVAX 3600, MicroVAX 3800, MicroVAX 3900

VAXstation:	VAXstation II, VAXstation 2000, VAXstation 3100, VAXstation 
                3200, VAXstation 3500, VAXstation 3520, VAXstation 3540, 
                VAXstation 8000

VAXserver:	VAXserver 3300, VAXserver 3400, VAXserver 3500, VAXserver 
                3600, VAXserver 3602, VAXserver 3800, VAXserver 3900, 
                VAXserver 6210, VAXserver 6220, VAXserver 6310, VAXserver 
                6320
 
Unsupported CPUs:

VAX:	VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730, VAX-11/782

MicroVAX:      MicroVAX I

VAXstation:	 VAXstation I

Supported Preconfigured VAXcluster Systems:

VAX:	      VAX 6312, VAX 6333, VAX 8842, VAX 8974, VAX 8978

Supported CI Components:

CI-based and mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems require Computer 
Interconnect cables, adapter ports in each CPU, and a Star Coupler device.  
There is a maximum of one CI port adapter per VAX CPU.

The following CI port adapters are supported:

oo   CIBCI

oo   CIBCA-A

oo   CIBCA-B

oo   CI750

oo   CI780

Supported Ethernet Adapters:

oo   DEBNA

oo   DELQA

oo   DELUA

oo   DEQNA (2)

oo   DESQA

oo   DESVA

oo   DEUNA

System Disk and Memory Requirements:

oo   The smallest supported boot server system disks are the RD54, the RF30, 
    and the RZ23.

oo   All VAXcluster system CPUs must have a minimum of 4 megabytes of 
    physical memory.


OPTIONAL HARDWARE

This section describes the Computer Interconnect Star Coupler Expander 
(CISCE) and Hierarchical Storage Controller (HSC) Subsystems.

CISCE

A CISCE may be added to a Star Coupler in a CI-based or mixed-interconnect 
VAXcluster System to increase the total combined number of CI-connected VAX 
CPUs and HSC subsystems to 24. The maximum number of CI-connected VAX CPUs 
is 16.

HSC Subsystems

CI-based and mixed-interconnect VAXcluster systems may include HSC40, 
HSC50, and HSC70 intelligent mass storage controllers. These controllers 
offload disk management functions from host CPUs and provide several 
additional benefits:

oo   Increased I/O throughput

oo   Multiple-CPU access to storage

oo   Support for VAX Volume Shadowing Software

The following rules apply for HSC subsystems:

oo   Each HSC40 supports a maximum of three channels for disks and/or tapes.

oo   Each HSC50 supports a maximum of six channels for disks and/or tapes.

oo   Each HSC70 supports a maximum of eight channels for disks and/or tapes.

oo   Each disk channel supports a maximum of four disk drives, and each tape 
    channel supports a maximum of four tape subsystems (with four tape 
    drives each). The VMS operating system supports a maximum of 12 tape 
    drives per HSC subsystem.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

The following are software requirements for VAXcluster systems:

oo   VMS Operating System

    Versions 5.1-n and 5.2 of the VMS Operating System may coexist in a 
    VAXcluster. However, only one version of VMS may exist on a specific 
    system disk.  During a rolling upgrade, a separate system disk is 
    required for each version. However, DIGITAL recommends that all VAX 
    systems in a VAXcluster run the latest release of VMS.

oo   DECnet-VAX Software

    All VAXcluster CPUs require either an End Node or Full Function 
    DECnet-VAX license.

    Refer to the DECnet-VAX Software Product Description document (SPD 
    25.03.xx) for further information.

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

For information on VAXcluster support for optional software products, refer 
to the VAXcluster Support section of the Software Product Description (SPD) 
documents for those products.

Optional products that are particularly useful in VAXcluster systems 
include VAX Volume Shadowing Software (SPD 27.29.xx), VAX Performance 
Advisor (SPD 27.71.xx) and VAXcluster Console System (SPD 27.46.xx).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software License: QL-VBRA*-AA
Software Product Services: QT-VBRA*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

License Options

A VAXcluster Software license is required for each CPU in a VAXcluster 
system.

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

The VAXcluster Software product supports the VMS License Management 
Facility.

For more information about the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility Manual in the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

(1) Pairs of MicroVAX CPUs connected to the same DIGITAL Small Storage
interconnect (DSSI) bus.
For the MicroVAX 3500 and MicroVAx 3600, the console ROMS must be Revision
Level V5.1 or later.

June 1989
AE-LS19C-TE

