VAXpc for VMS, Version 1.0                            SPD 15.H9.00

DESCRIPTION
       
The VAXpc for VMS software product provides the VAXstation user with the 
ability to operate DOS based software.  The VAXpc product emulates an IBMROF
RO IBM is a registered trademark of the International Business Machines 
Corporation.
F 
PC AT system (real mode only)  using standard VMS hardware and software.  A 
DOS application will function in the VAXpc environment in like manner to 
its function on an IBM PC AT so long as it does not require special 
hardware, protected mode memory, copy protected diskette media or the Intel 
80286 processor trace flag.

The VAXpc product is a DECwindows application program. As such, it can be 
executed on any VMS system that supports DECwindows and can be displayed on 
a VMS DECwindows X windows display station.  For example, a VAX 8600 could 
be used for execution and a VAXstation 2000 running VMS could act as the 
display.  Additionally, it supports the DECwindows text cut and paste 
facility.

The performance of the VAXpc facility is dependent upon a number of factors 
as well as the speed of the processor upon which it executes.  A lightly 
loaded, (session manager and DECterm executing only), nominally configured 
(8MB) VAXstation 3100 will yield approximately XT performance.

Applications used with the VAXpc emulator (except those DOS utilities 
included with the VAXpc software) are not DIGITAL licensed, warranted or 
supported products.  The user must comply with the terms and conditions of 
each application software license agreement in effect between the user and 
application supplier.

Emulated Environment

CPU		     - 	80286 (real mode only)
ROM BIOS	     -	AT BIOS
Operating System     -	DOS version 3.3
Diskette	     -	3.5 in. high density read / write
		     	5.25 in. high density read / write copy protection 
                        not supported
Hard disk	     -	up to 32 MB
Communications port  -	COM1 maps to the VAX serial ports (up to 1200
		     	baud on a VAXstation 3100 for file transfer 
                        operations only)
Printer		     -	LPT1, LPT2, and LPT3 map to VMS print queue
		     	or spooled device
Memory		     -	640K maximum
Video		     -	CGA or HERCULES
Keyboard	     -	AT enhanced
Mouse		     -	Microsoft bus mouse emulated (a bus mouse 
                        compatible driver must be supplied by user)
Clock		     -	CMOS clock
Not supported	     -	special hardware, protected mode memory, copy 
                        protected diskette media, trace function, PC 
                        network functions

Functional Features

Operational Control 

oo   Pause - Allows the user to halt the VAXpc process on a temporary basis.
oo   Continue - Restarts VAXpc emulator after pause.
oo   Warm reboot - Reboots VAXpc emulator without closing open file or 
    changing VAXpc operating parameters.
oo   Cold reboot - Reboots VAXpc emulator closes open files, and re-reads 
    the VAXpc initialization file.
oo   Quit - Closes VAXpc window.
oo   Idle detection - Reduces CPU utilization if no VAXpc activity is 
    detected for 30 seconds.

Edit Functions

oo   Copy - replicates selected text from the VAXpc window and places it 
    into a memory buffer.
oo   Paste - Inserts text from the memory buffer into the current location 
    of the active VAXpc window
oo   Select all - Creates a selection of all text in a VAXpc window

Device Control Functions

oo   PC Mouse - Puts mouse into PC application mode.
oo   Sound Off - Toggles CTRL G echo (keyboard beep) on and off.
oo   Release Diskette - Releases a lock on the diskette drive.
oo   Assign Diskette - Changes the virtual and physical disk assigned to a 
    floppy drive specification.
oo   Flush Printer - Releases print buffer for printing.
oo   Device Status - Displays information about VAXpc emulated devices.

PCDISK Utility

The PCDISK utility is a VMS terminal based program that provides the user 
the ability to perform file operations upon DOS files which are stored in 
DOS compatible virtual disk files.  It also allows for the transfer of 
files between the native VMS environment and the emulated VAXpc disks.
oo   CHDIR - Displays or sets the default directory.
oo   COPY - Copies DOS files between virtual disks.
oo   DELete - Removes one or more files from a virtual disk or DOS formatted 
    device.
oo   DIRectory - Displays information about the file entries in an specified 
    directory.
oo   EXIT - Dismounts any assigned DOS devices and exits the PCDISK utility.
oo   EXPORT - Copies a DOS file from a DOS virtual or physical disk to the 
    VMS file system.
oo   IMPORT - Copies a file from the VMS file system to a DOS virtual or 
    physical disk.
oo   MKDIR - Creates a directory on a virtual disk or DOS formatted device.
oo   RMDIR - Removes a directory from a virtual disk or DOS formatted 
    device.
oo   REName - Renames a specified file.
oo   TYPE - Displays the contents of a file.
oo   USE - Mounts and dismounts a virtual disk or a DOS formatted device.

VAXpc$SETUP

The VAXpc setup utility is a DECwindows program that allows the user to 
modify the DOS environment for the workstation. The following is a summary 
of the attributes managed from this facility:

oo   Boot Drive - Select A: or C: drive as the VAXpc boot device.

oo   A: / B: Diskette Drive - Specify the VMS device or file name that maps 
    to the
    DOS A: / B: drive.

oo   C: Drive - Select 10, 20 or 32 MB virtual hard disk and specify the 
    virtual hard disk VMS file that maps to the DOS C: drive.

oo   Line Printer 1 / 2 / 3 - Specify the VMS device or print queue that 
    maps to the DOS LPT1, LPT2, and LPT3 devices.

oo   COM Port 1 - Specify the VMS serial device that maps to the DOS COM1 
    port.

Multiple Sessions

A given user may operate multiple sessions of VAXpc from the same account 
without requiring additional license units.

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this product. 
DIGITAL recommends that all other customers purchase DIGITAL's Installation 
Services.  These services provide for installation of the software product 
by an experienced DIGITAL Software Specialist.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum
(SSA 25.H9.00-x).

The VAXpc DECwindows application requires a minimum working set of 2 MB.  
Refer to VMS Operating System (SPD 25.01.xx) for additional memory 
requirements.

In order to load PC application software on to a VAXpc system that does not 
have a diskette drive, a network connected VAX with diskette drive, a PC 
with DECnet/DOS or file transfer utility is required.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS 

VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions 
of prerequisite software and for information regarding components of  VMS 
DECwindows (SSA 25.H9.00-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VW8A*-**
Software Media for VMS 1600MT: QA-VW8AA-**
Software Media for VMS TK50: QA-VW8AA-**
Software Documentation: QA-VW8AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VW8A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

The above information is valid at time of release,  Please contact your 
local DIGITAL office for the most up-to-date information.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
Licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

License Management Facility

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a User/Activity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information, contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

June 1989
BH-NA00A-TE

