
PRODUCT NAME: VAX Public Access Communications, Version 1.2   SPD 28.51.02

DESCRIPTION 

VAX Public Access Communications (VAXPAC) is a layered software product that
provides the VMS user with a mechanism for connecting the VMS Operating
System to a remote system using asynchronous lines. A remote system may be any
system that accepts and displays data using an asynchronous interface
compatible with RS-232C, RS-422 or RS-423.

All the features of VAX Public Access Communications are available using menus
and forms. There is extensive on-line help to assist the user of VAX Public
Access Communications. 

VAX Public Access Communications has the following features: 

Establishing A Connection 

^   Connect to remote systems using phone lines or direct connections using
    asynchronous links. For example, users can connect to such well-known
    public data sources as CompuServe (r), NewsNet (r), The SOURCE (r), 
    Dow Jones News/Retrieval Service (r), WestLaw (r), LEXIS (r), and Digital
    Village (r); and to private data sources. Users can dial these databases
    directly or use one of the Value Added Networks (VANs), such as Telenet 
    (tm) or TYMNET (r).

^   Supports autodial, dial from keyboard or dial from handset for suitable
    modems (see below).

^   Allows two levels of predefined connections. Standard connections which
    are those available to all users of the system and personal connections
    allow individual users to define connections which only that individual
    can use. Each connection defines the phone number, the terminal port 
    and the line characteristics once a connection has been established. 

^   Supports manual connections. In this case the user defines the connection
    immediately prior to establishing the connection. The user has the option
    of saving the connection in the list of predefined connections once 
    satisfied with it. 

During the Connection 

^   Terminal pass thru mode 

    Allows the user to operate as if the user's terminal was directly    
    connected to the remote system. While the user is operating in terminal
    pass thru mode all characters displayed by the remote system are displayed
    on the user's terminal and all characters sent from the terminal are 
    passed directly to the remote system apart from the designated LOCAL key. 
    The LOCAL key is a user-defined key which switches context between pass 
    thru mode and the local system. 

^   Session logging 

    This allows the user to selectively record all characters displayed by
    the remote system. The user can enable/disable logging during a session,
    file the session logging data, print it on the system printer or discard
    it. This feature can be used to capture a file from a remote system that
    has the facility to display a file.

^   Send a text file

    This allows the user to upload a text file to a remote system as if it
    was keyed in from the user's keyboard. This feature can be used to 
    transfer a file from the local system to any remote system that allows 
    the creation of a file from keyboard input. It can also be used to upload 
    a sequence of commands to the remote system, such as a login sequence. 

^   File transfer 

    Allows files to be transferred with the remote system using error    
    checking. File transfer requires cooperating software to be installed on
    both the local system and the remote system. The software on the local
    system is referred to as the file transfer method. The software on the
    remote system is referred to as the file transfer server. Essentially, 
    the file transfer server is passive, reacting to file transfer commands 
    from the file transfer method operating on the local system. 

    VAX Public Access Communications has built-in support for KERMIT (r)
    file transfer. 

    Note: A version of KERMIT is contained in this product.  Although KERMIT
    is free and available to anyone who requests it from Columbia University, 
    Columbia does not warrant in any way the KERMIT software nor the accuracy 
    of any related documentation, and neither the authors of any KERMIT 
    programs or documentation nor Columbia University nor any other 
    contributing institutions acknowledge any liability resulting from 
    program or documentation errors.

    In order to use KERMIT file transfer the remote system must have a    
    version of KERMIT installed which supports server mode. 

    Because of limitations in KERMIT, there are restrictions on the types
    of files that can be transferred. Text files can usually be expected to
    transfer successfully. There is also provision for transferring VMS
    executable images and sequential files with variable length records.
    Currently, there is no provision for transferring indexed files or 
    relative files.

    VAX Public Access Communications provides an interface that allows    
    other file transfer software to be invoked instead of KERMIT. This is
    explained under MAINTENANCE FEATURES below.

^   Change setup for connection 

    A user can change the characteristics for a connection during a    
    session. This feature simplifies the defining of new connections. 

^   Send Break 

    Allows a break signal to be passed to the remote system. 

Maintenance Features 

^   Provides users who have system privileges with the facility to define
    the terminal ports that may be used and the characteristics for the
    communication line required to establish a connection. Terminal ports
    may be placed in groups so that the software automatically tries a 
    second port if the first one is in use.

^   Provides users who have system privileges with the facility to define
    the characteristics of the modems that will be attached. Upon installation,
    the  definitions will exist for DEC DF03, DEC DF112, DEC DF224 (Scholar), 
    DF242, DFA01, and modems using the Hayes command set.

^   Provides users who have system privileges with the facility to define
    additional file transfer methods. When VAX Public Access Communications 
    is first installed, support is defined for KERMIT file transfer.

^   Provides users who have system privileges with the facility to define
    additional file transfer servers. File transfer servers allow systems
    dialing into a host system with VAX Public Access Communications 
    installed to transfer files between the host system and a local system 
    which has cooperating software. When VAX Public Access Communications 
    is first installed, support is defined for KERMIT file transfer server 
    in 3 modes - ASCII text files, binary files suitable for sequential files
    with a record length less than 1024 bytes and fixed files suitable for
    files with 512 byte fixed length records such as VMS task images.

^   Provides users who have system privileges with the facility to define
    additional interrupt procedures. When VAX Public Access Communications 
    is first installed, support is defined for both interrupt to DCL and 
    interrupt to the A-to-Z Interrupt Menu. 

^   Provides users who have system privileges with the facility to define
    system defaults. System defaults are used to specify the default line
    characteristics for connections, as well as defaults for the interrupt
    procedure and file transfer method.

^   Provides users who have system privileges with the facility to restrict
    the use of certain connection features and the use of the interrupt key.

Additional Features

File Transfer - VAX Public Access Communications allows text (ASCII) files to
be sent and received between the computer system on which it is installed and
any remote ASCII data base which permits such file transfers. 

Guidelines for transferring remote public database files are contained as part
of the terms and conditions of subscribing to such public data bases. 
Technical guidance for file transfer, including protocol(s) supported are
typically contained in documentation for using such public data bases. 

For file transfer with error-correction,  both participating computer systems
must have VAX Public Access Communications software or another KERMIT server
installed.  KERMIT is provided as a part of VAX Public Access Communications,
with the permission of Columbia University, and such inclusion is within the
guidelines provided by Columbia University for incorporation of KERMIT into
commercial products. 

Note: ANY SUBSTITUTION OR REPLACEMENT OF THE KERMIT CODE AND/OR MODIFICATION 
      OF THE KERMIT CODE PROVIDED AS PART OF THIS PRODUCT INVALIDATES ALL 
      WARRANTIES MADE ON THE PRODUCT. 

This product is not intended for export except to countries in which PTT 
certification has been obtained. 
 
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 28.51.02-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System

* Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required versions of
  prerequisite software (SSA 28.51.02-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-VFHA*-**
Software Media: QA-VFHA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VFHAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VFHA*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses,
  services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

License Management Facility Support

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.  License 
units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Decription (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your 
local DIGITAL office.
 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more information, 
contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase of 
license for this product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of this
SPD.
 
VAX Public Access Communications and VAXPAC are registered trademarks of
Digital Equipment Corporation 
 
KERMIT is a registered trademark of Henson Associates, Inc. 
 
KERMIT is a communication protocol, free and available to anyone who requests
it from Columbia University.  KERMIT Copyright (C) 1985, Trustees of Columbia
University in the City of New York.  Permission is granted to any individual or
institution to use, copy, or re- distribute this software so long as it is not
sold for profit, provided this copyright notice is retained. 
 
R CompuServe is a registered trademark of CompuServe Incorporated 
 
R NewsNet is a registered trademark of NewsNet, Inc. 
 
R The SOURCE is a registered trademark of Source Telecomputing   Corporation, a
  subsidiary of The Reader's Digest Ass'n, Inc. 
 
R LEXIS is a registered trademark of Mead Corporation. 
 
R WestLaw is a registered trademark of West Publishing Company. 
 
R Dow Jones News/Retrieval is a registered trademark of   Dow Jones & Company. 
 
R Hayes is a registered trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. 
 
TM Smartmodem is a trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. 
 
TM Digital Village is a registered trademark of Global Villages, Inc. 
 
TM Telenet is a trademark of GTE Telenet Communications Corporation 
 
R  TYMNET is a registered trademark of Tymnet, Inc. 

