VAXset Package, Release 8                                   SPD 27.07.07

DESCRIPTION

The VAXset (Software Engineering Tools) Package is comprised of six component 
products: 

oo   VAX Language-Sensitive Editor
oo   VAX Source Code Analyzer
oo   VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer
oo   VAX DEC/CMS
oo   VAX DEC/MMS
oo   VAX DEC/Test Manager
These products provide a set of software engineering tools for the 
development, testing, and maintenance of application programs. Four 
products (VAX Language-Sensitive Editor, VAX Performance and Coverage 
Analyzer, VAX DEC/CMS, VAX DEC/Test Manager) support the DECwindows 
software environment, and provide either a DECwindows or a command line 
user interface.

Certain features of these products are not available when using language 
preprocessors such as those supplied for VAX Rdb/VMS and VAX DBMS. Please 
consult your local DIGITAL representative for additional information. 

Descriptions of the component products of the VAXset Package are as 
follows:

VAX Language-Sensitive Editor 

The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor is a multi-language, multi-window, 
screen-oriented editor specifically designed for program development and 
maintenance.  The Editor is ``language-sensitive'' in that it provides 
users with VAX language-specific information.  This information enables 
both new and experienced programmers to develop programs faster, with fewer 
errors, through VAX language-specific construct completion, and error 
detection and correction facilities. 

The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor works in concert with supported VAX 
languages, the VAX Source Code Analyzer, and the VAX Symbolic Debugger to 
provide a highly-interactive, on-line environment that provides the 
software professional with an integrated source code development and 
maintenance environment. This environment provides the capability to 
interactively EDIT-COMPILE-DEBUG-NAVIGATE-ANALYZE source code all from with 
a single interactive development session. The Editor further can be invoked 
directly from the VAX Symbolic Debugger to correct source code errors found 
during a debugging session. 

Users can customize the environment by tailoring and expanding upon the 
features and structures provided by the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor. 
User-defined environments can be saved for future use. 

For more information on the VAX Language-Sensitive Editor and the language 
it supports, refer to the Software Product Description for this product 
(SPD 26.59.xx). 

VAX Source Code Analyzer

The VAX Source Code Analyzer is an interactive, multi-language, 
multi-module, source code cross-reference and static analysis tool which 
aids developers in understanding the complexities of software systems.  
Since it allows a developer to analyze an entire system as opposed to 
individual modules, the VAX Source Code Analyzer is extremely useful during 
the implementation and maintenance phases of a project, even if a developer 
is not familiar with a particular software system. The product's query 
capability allows the user to search and display specific symbol, file and 
module information.  Its static analysis capability allows the user to 
display call tree information and validate routine call arguments. 

The VAX Source Code Analyzer is tightly integrated with the VAX 
Language-Sensitive Editor.  All the analyzer commands are available from 
within an editing session and the user is able to directly make changes to 
the corresponding source code. 

For more information on the VAX Source Code Analyzer, refer to the Software 
Product Description for this product (SPD 27.63.xx). 

VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer

The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer is a tool to help VMS users 
analyze the execution behavior of their application programs. The VAX 
Performance and Coverage Analyzer has two functions. First, it can pinpoint 
execution bottlenecks and other performance problems in application 
programs. Secondly, it provides test coverage analysis by measuring what 
parts of a user program are executed or not executed by a given set of test 
data. 

The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer is an aid in tuning the 
performance and testing of application programs.  It is not a tool for the 
analysis of operating system performance or for use as an aid in hardware 
resource planning. 

The VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer consists of two parts: the 
Collector which gathers performance or test coverage data on the running 
user program and the Analyzer which later processes and displays the 
collected data. The Collector gathers the performance data and writes that 
information to a data file. Once the data has been collected into a data 
file, the Analyzer can be run using that data file as input. The Analyzer 
is a separate program which reads the data file produced by the Collector 
and presents the results as performance histograms or other displays. 

Both the Collector and the Analyzer are fully symbolic and use the Debug 
Symbol Table (DST) information in the user program to access the symbolic 
names of program locations. Applications written in any of the VMS 
languages which produce DST information can be analyzed using the VAX 
Performance and Coverage Analyzer. 

For more information on the VAX Performance and Coverage Analyzer, refer to 
the Software Product Description for this product (SPD 26.76.xx). 

VAX DEC/CMS

VAX DEC/CMS (Code Management System) is a library system that facilitates 
the development and maintenance of software systems.  Software systems are 
divided into different functional components that are, in turn, organized 
into sets of one or more files.  During development, one or more 
programmers continually make changes to these files.  VAX DEC/CMS helps 
manage the files during development (and later during maintenance) by 
storing the files in a project library, tracking changes, and monitoring 
access to the library. 

VAX DEC/CMS also supplies a means of manipulating different combinations of 
files within a library and across libraries. The ability to formalize these 
combinations provides a focus for system design and a means of organizing 
the files within a library. 

For more information on VAX DEC/CMS, refer to the Software Product 
Description for this product (SPD 25.52.xx). 

VAX DEC/MMS

VAX DEC/MMS (Module Management System) is a software tool designed to 
enhance programmer productivity. It determines that components in a 
described software system have changed, and rebuilds the system in an 
optimal way. 

When some modules of a software system are modified, dependent modules may 
need to be recompiled.  VAX DEC/MMS determines which modules need to be 
recompiled, and performs the appropriate actions to insure that the 
software system is recompiled and linked with all the latest changes. 

Note:	Installations utilizing VAX Ada should note that many of the 
        features of DEC/MMS are duplicated by the ACS library manager 
        subsystem for Ada-encoded programs. VAX DEC/MMS retains its 
        benefits as a productivity aide for such installations primarily 
        for non-Ada programming. 

For more information on VAX DEC/MMS, refer to the Software Product 
Description for this product (SPD 26.03.xx). 

VAX DEC/Test Manager

VAX DEC/Test Manager automates regression testing by executing 
user-supplied tests and automatically comparing the results with the 
expected test results. VAX DEC/Test Manager gives the software engineer 
flexibility in organizing tests and in selecting tests for execution, and 
in verifying and reviewing test results. 

VAX DEC/Test Manager lets the user create a library area for test result 
storage.  It allows users to: 

oo   Create descriptions of their software tests

oo   Group these test descriptions into meaningful combinations for later 
    runs

oo   Modify or display the test descriptions or groups

oo   Execute specific tests, groups of tests or combinations of groups of 
    tests

oo   Record and replay interactive terminal and interactive DECwindows 
    sessions.

oo   Compare the results of the executed tests with benchmark test results 
    to determine differences

oo   View test results interactively

oo   Update benchmarks as needed

For more information on the VAX DEC/Test Manager refer to the Software 
Product Description for this product (SPD 26.68.xx). 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 27.07.07-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

For systems using terminals: (No DECwindows interface)

VMS Operating System

For workstations running VWS:

VMS Operating System
VMS Workstation Software

For workstations running DECwindows:

VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.07.07-x) for availability and 
required versions of prerequisite software and for information regarding 
components of VMS DECwindows.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-965A*-**
Software Media: QA-965A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-965AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-965A*-**

Educational Institutions Only

Software Licenses: QL-966A*-**
Software Media: QA-966A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-966AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-966A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available            
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

License Management Facility Support

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis. For 
more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available.  For more information on         
these or other services, please contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD. 

May 1989
AE-HD68H-TE
