VAX Volume Shadowing, Version 5.2                             SPD 27.29.05

DESCRIPTION 

VAX Volume Shadowing is a System Integrated Product (SIP) available on VMS 
systems, using HSC controllers with RA-series disks. Volume Shadowing 
enhances data availability by duplicating all data written to disk onto two 
or three compatible disk volumes. Compatible disks are disks that have the 
same physical geometry. The system disk and FILES-11 ODS-2 data disks may 
be volume shadowed.  Shadow sets may be used as constituents of a volume 
set.

A set of two or three disks on which the data is duplicated is called a 
shadow set.  A disk that is part of a shadow set is called a member. Every 
member of a shadow set is identical to every other member of the shadow 
set.  In the event of failure of any shadow set member, disk input/output 
continues with the remaining member(s) of the shadow set. Since it does not 
provide for recovery from accidental file deletion, Volume Shadowing is not 
a complete substitute for regular backup operations.

Shadow Set Membership 

The minimum number of disks in a shadow set is one. The maximum number of 
disks in a shadow set is three.  The ability to have a shadow set with only 
a single member allows a two-member shadow set to continue operation after 
the failure of one member. It also allows normal operation of a single 
member shadow set and the addition of a second member during a volume 
backup procedure.

Refer to the section entitled Restrictions within this SPD for further 
information about shadow set membership.

Transparency to the End User

The shadow set acts as a single disk. The user makes no effort to have the 
data propagated to all of the members of a shadow set. It is a task of the 
volume shadowing function to replicate the data on all shadow set members.

The syntax and semantics of reading and writing data to and from a shadow 
set is identical to the syntax and semantics used for non-shadowed I/O 
operations. That is, all commands and program language features that 
address data on non-shadowed disks may be used to address data on shadowed 
disks.

Enabling or disabling shadowing for a particular disk requires dismounting 
and remounting the disk. Disks may be added to or removed from the shadow 
set without affecting either the end user or any application.

Shadow Set Transitions 

A disk can be removed from the shadow set by operator command.  A disk that 
fails is automatically removed from the shadow set. In this case, the 
removal of the shadow set member is performed automatically with no 
operator intervention required.

A disk is added to the shadow set only on command of the operator. The 
volume shadowing routines ensure that, within a reasonable period of time, 
the newly added shadow set member is made identical to the other member. 
Read/write access to the shadow set is permitted while the new member is 
being made identical to the other member.

Disks may be added to or removed from the shadow set at any time. Some 
removal methods guarantee complete data consistency; others do not. When a 
shadow set is properly dismounted and dissolved (a DISMOUNT command has 
been executed and the SHOW DEVICE command shows the shadow set as 
dismounted) all shadow set members are fully consistent.  However, disks 
that are former members of an improperly dismounted shadow set may contain 
inconsistent file system or user data.

Automatic Failover of Dual-Pathed Disks 

Shadow set members may be dual-pathed between two HSC controllers. That is, 
each disk may be physically connected to each of two controllers. Should 
any single disk be dual-pathed between two HSC controllers, then every disk 
in the shadow set must be dual-pathed to the same two HSC controllers.  At 
any given time, only one HSC actually controls the shadow set. In the event 
of a controller failure, the volume shadowing software transfers the shadow 
set from the failed controller to the operational controller. Thus, the 
remaining controller will continue to perform the I/O with no loss of data. 

Refer to  the section entitled Restrictions for information about shadow 
set membership.

System Disk Shadow Sets 

The system disk, like all other disks, may belong to a shadow set. If this 
is the case, normal system operation is conducted using a shadow set that 
contains the system boot device. However, when no nodes in a VAXcluster 
system have a shadowed system disk mounted (for example, when no other 
VAXcluster members are booted), that shadow set does not exist. When the 
required shadow set does not exist, the initial stages of system booting 
are performed using only the single disk system boot device. 

During this brief interval, a hardware failure occurring in the single disk 
boot device may adversely affect the system's ability to boot. In this 
respect, shadowed system disks are briefly identical to non-shadowed system 
disks. After the initial stages of system booting, shadowed system disks 
have most of the failure recovery properties of shadow sets.

Restrictions 
oo   In a VAXcluster system, the quorum disk cannot be shadowed.

oo   Sixteen is the maximum number of disks per HSC, or per HSC pair in the 
    case of dual-pathed disks, that may be shadowed.

oo   Eight is the maximum number of shadow sets per HSC, or per HSC pair in 
    the case of dual-pathed disks.

oo   Three is the maximum number of disks per shadow set.

For additional information about restrictions, refer to the VMS Operating 
System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) and the VAXcluster 
Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx).

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 
25.01.xx) and VAXcluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) for 
information about hardware requirements and supported processors.

At least one HSC series controller is required.

At least two RA-series disks having the same geometry, that is of the same 
type, are required. In a VAXcluster system, the quorum file cannot be on a 
shadowed disk. Therefore, in those VAXcluster systems in which a quorum 
file is being used, a minimum of two RA-series disks having the same 
geometry are required for the shadow set and an additional disk is required 
for the quorum file.

OPTIONAL HARDWARE

Shadow sets may contain up to three shadow set members. Each shadow set 
member must be an RA-series disk with geometry identical to that of the 
other shadow set members.

For each HSC, or per HSC pair in the case of dual-pathed disks, up to a 
total of sixteen disks may be shadowed.

CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

VAX Volume Shadowing is fully supported when installed on any valid and 
licensed VAXcluster configuration without restrictions.  The HARDWARE 
REQUIREMENTS section of this product's Software Product Description and the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) list any 
special hardware required by this product.

VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster Software 
Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet, and Mixed 
Interconnect configurations.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

oo   The VMS Operating System

oo   HSC Software, Version 3.5

Refer to the VAXcluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) for 
information about rolling upgrade restrictions.

VMS Tailoring

For VMS V5.x, the following VMS classes are required for full functionality 
of this layered product:

oo   VMS Required Saveset

For more information about VMS classes and tailoring, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

None

GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of this 
product may be different from the minimum requirements for the current 
version.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-AB2A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-AB2AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-AB2A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

The above information is valid at the time of release. Please contact your 
local DIGITAL office for the most up-to-date information.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

VAX Volume Shadowing supports the VMS License Management Facility (LMF).

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information about the License Management Facility, refer to the 
VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Utility Manual of the VMS Operating System documentation 
set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information, contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

June 1989
AE-HP37F-TE
