VAX VTX, Version 4.0                                      SPD 26.57.10

DESCRIPTION

VAX VTX is a software package layered on VMS that provides videotex 
services compliant with CCITT F.300 recommendations.  Videotex is a 
distributed information retrieval service that utilizes a tree structured 
database through which the user navigates by selecting choices from a menu.  
The content of the videotex infobase consists of full-screen ``pages'' of 
information supplied by the Information Providers. 

The information contained in the infobase is prepared with standard DIGITAL 
editors (WPS-PLUS, TPU, EDT, DECgraph, DECslide, DECwrite, etc.) to create 
the pages of information. 

VAX VTX provides:

oo   A distributed videotex service environment on VAX or MicroVAX systems 
    and DIGITAL networks.

oo   Access through terminals to page and menu-oriented, distributed, text 
    or graphics information bases.

oo   The means of attaching one or more applications to a VAX VTX 
    distributed system through the use of the VTX Application Link 
    Utilities (VALU) components, which are included in the VTX product.

VAX VTX services the non-technical and senior management person with both 
quick access to the VTX system and the ability to peruse on-line 
information without training. 

There are three categories of VTX users:

oo   End-users or Subscribers who retrieve the information from the 
    infobase.

oo   Those who design (infobase designers), maintain (VTX operators), and 
    prepare (information providers or IPs) the VTX Service.

oo   Application programmers who create and maintain applications for a VAX 
    VTX Service.

Features

oo   For VAX VTX V4.0, the VISTA Utility has been renamed VAX VTX Workbench. 
    This change of name has resulted from DIGITAL's attention being brought 
    to the fact that "VISTA" (TM) is an established trademark of Vista 
    Computer Systems Limited, one of DIGITAL's leading UK Complementary 
    Solutions Organizations.  In order to avoid confusion with the products 
    of Vista Computer Systems Limited, DIGITAL is ceasing use of the name 
    VISTA.

oo   VAX VTX Workbench provides a graphical environment for the Information 
    Provider to storyboard, design, build and maintain a VTX infobase.  The 
    VAX VTX Workbench Information Provider can build a complete menu 
    structure through a simple pictorial interface.

oo   Concentrator support for X.29 virtual devices, construction of X.25 
    based gateways, concentrator support for 3270 class terminals based on 
    the use of the DECnet/SNA Gateway VMS 3270 Data Stream Programming 
    interface and custom-written IBM application.

oo   Context-sensitive keywords allow the use of segmented keyword files to 
    allow for keyword matches based on the subscriber's current page 
    context.

oo   Ability to modify the Terminal Control Program - the Terminal Specific 
    Module (TSM) allows for changes in keypad-to-function mapping.

oo   ALL-IN-1 Terminal Control Program is included in the VTX base product 
    and fully integrated with ALL-IN-1.  This feature enables the ALL-IN-1 
    user to access VTX using GOLD key mappings for the standard VTX 
    functions. It also allows for integration with the ALL-IN-1 Interrupt 
    and Scratchpad menus.

oo   Support for DECwindows Terminal Control Program.

oo   Extensive on line help - VAX VTX on line help is available for all 
    categories of VTX users.

oo   Access to distributed VAX VTX infobases - VAX VTX supports access not 
    only to the VAX VTX infobase resident on a local VAX, but also to VAX 
    VTX infobases resident on other VAX processors in a VAXcluster or in a 
    DIGITAL network.

oo   Document paginator allows the VTX Information Provider to paginate 
    documents for subsequent use by VTXAPMS, VTXUPD or VAX VTX Workbench. 
    The document paginator allows you to paginate WPS-PLUS documents, ASCII 
    files and DDIF files.
  
Components

VAX VTX consists of several components including: VTX Server (SRV), 
Terminal Control Program Concentrator (TCP/CON), VTX Update Utility 
(VTXUPD), VAX VTX Workbench Server (WBSRV), External Link Interface (ELK), 
VTX Application Service (VAS) and Remote Update Server Link (RUSL).

VTX Operator Tools

oo   VTX Server (SRV) handles subscriber requests for the pages in an 
    infobase. 

oo   VTX Control Utility (VTXCTL) enables communication for the VAX VTX 
    operator with the VTX server, update server, concentrator, VAX VTX 
    Workbench Server and the VTX application server to start and stop 
    processes.

oo   VTX Account Control Utility (ACU) allows creation,  modification, 
    deletion and maintenance of VAX VTX accounts.

oo   VAX VTX Workbench Server (WBSRV) controls all VAX VTX Workbench update 
    access to VAX VTX infobases, and performs updates to the infobases.  It 
    also enables the user to retrieve and extract pages from the infobase 
    for modification using the VAX VTX Workbench Graphical Interface.

oo   VTX Update Server (UPDSRV) controls all update access to local and 
    remote VAX VTX infobases, and performs the requested updates to the 
    infobase.  The VAX VTX Update Server declares itself a DECnet object, 
    and accepts connect requests and subsequent update requests from local 
    or remote Information Providers via the VTX Update Utility.

oo   Infobase Verification Utility (IVU) performs infobase verification and 
    reports on the infobase structure.  IVU enables the user to 
    periodically examine the state of the infobase and identify any 
    discrepancies. Optionally, the verification report may contain a 
    cross-reference listing of the infobase.

Information Provider Tools

oo   VTX Update Utility (VTXUPD) provides full maintenance capability 
    including creation, modification, and deletion of VAX VTX pages in the 
    infobase.  The utility offers two ways in which to work: menu mode for 
    first-time or infrequent users, and command mode for experienced users. 
    This program can operate directly on infobase files or access infobase 
    files through the network using the Update Server. 

oo   VTX Automatic Page Management System (VTXAPMS) is an automated tool 
    that assigns/replaces symbolic page references in VTXAPMS input files 
    with page numbers and dynamically builds index menus.

oo   VAX VTX Workbench Graphical Interface (WBGI) allows the communication 
    of one or more Information Providers with the Workbench Server to 
    create and maintain information in page and keyword files.

oo   VAX VTX Workbench Command Language (WBCL) allows the Information 
    Provider to automatically generate an infobase from large or frequently 
    updated sources, such as manuals and catalogs.

Terminal Control/Concentrator (TCP/CON)

oo   Terminal Control Program (TCP) controls a single terminal in a dialogue  
    between the subscriber and the VTX service.  The program interprets 
    keystrokes and sends messages to the server (SRV), receives messages 
    from the server (SRV) and displays pages requested from the infobase 
    and allows a VMS user access to the VTX service.

    DECwindows support in the Terminal Control Program for use in a 
    DECwindows environment allows the user to access functions through 
    direct manipulation of a mouse in a windowed interface. 

oo   Multi-port terminal control and link concentrator module (CON) controls 
    multiple terminals and allows VAX VTX session multiplexing across a 
    single DECnet link to a VTX server (SRV) to communicate across nodes of 
    a network.  A terminal running under the concentrator (CON) is 
    permitted access only to the VTX service, not to VMS.

    LAT support in the Concentrator allows DIGITAL terminals and All-IN-1 
    device type terminals connected to terminal servers to be assigned to 
    the concentrator.

External Link Interface (ELK)
  
oo   External Link Interface (ELK) is a shareable image of callable 
    routines. The ELK routines provide the ability to create custom-written 
    applications with a subset of the VAX VTX protocol capabilities to 
    interact with a VAX VTX server and TCP. Applications interfacing with 
    ELK may be written in any VMS supported language that complies with the 
    VMS calling standard. Interfacing with ELK offers the full advantage of 
    a wide range of VAX VTX functions. ELK requires a thorough 
    understanding of software development techniques used by the 
    applications programmer. 

VTX Application Service (VAS)

oo   The VTX Application Service (VAS) is a higher level facility that uses 
    the ELK interface. The VAS component is a VMS run-time image used to 
    present form, menu and display pages from the host VTX server's 
    infobase as the user interface to one or more transactional 
    applications defined by the customer. The VAS component may also 
    dynamically create menu pages which are formatted by the VTX Terminal 
    Control Program. These transactional videotex applications may be 
    defined entirely with VAS or may be distributed with VAS communicating 
    to custom-written external applications.  Application interfaces 
    include DECnet, P.S.I. X.25, and DECnet/SNA VMS APPC/LU6.2 Programming 
    Interface.

Remote Update Server Link (RUSL)

oo   The Remote Update Server Link (RUSL) is a shareable image of callable 
    routines that are linked into custom-written code to create tailored 
    update applications. RUSL applications can perform interactive VTX page 
    and keyword extractions, updates, additions and deletions through the 
    update server. RUSL applications communicate with the update server via 
    DECnet. 

Licensing Options

Terminal Control/Concentrator* 

This license permits customers to distribute licensed TCP/CON portions of 
VAX VTX to additional CPUs, thereby providing read-only access to VTX 
infobases.  

VTX Remote Update Option*

This license permits customers to update infobases over the DIGITAL 
network. Customers are allowed to run the VTXUPD or VAX VTX Workbench 
utility and perform normal Information Provider functions on licensed 
remote infobases. The VTX Remote Update license includes the document 
paginator to paginate WPS-PLUS documents and ASCII or DDIF files. 

VTX/VALU Run-time Option*

This license permits customers to move licensed portions of completed VAX 
VTX/VALU programs to other machines on a distributed network.  This is a 
node-wide license allowing for any number of ELK, VAS or RUSL applications 
to be resident on that licensed run-time node. 

*   Although these licenses all have separate option numbers, separate 
    media kits are not provided for these licenses. Installation of these 
    license options (managed by the License Management Facility) are 
    available from the full VAX VTX media option (QA-031A*-**) and may be 
    installed on other nodes in the network.
SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

The source code modules supplied to facilitate modification of the Terminal 
Control Program are provided on an "AS IS" basis without any warranty of 
any kind, either express or implied.
Note:	VAX BLISS-32 is required if .B32, .GBLI or .REQ mocules are to be 
        used in modifying the Terminal Control Program.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 26.57.10-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

For systems using terminals: (No DECwindows interface)

VMS Operating System 

For workstations running VWS:

VMS Operating System

VMS Workstation Software

For workstations running DECwindows:

VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.57.10-x) for availability 
    and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Base System:

Software Licenses: QL-031A*-**
Software Media: QA-031A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-031AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-031A*-**

VAX VTX Terminal Control/Concentrator Option:

Software Licenses: QL-033A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-033A*-**

VAX VTX/VALU Run-time Option: 

Software Licenses:  QL-VMBA*-**
Software Product Services:  QT-VMBA*-**
 
VAX VTX Remote Update Option: 

Software Licenses:  QL-VZ4A*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VZ4A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

For more information on the full system, the terminal control/concentrator, 
the run-time and remote options, please refer to the System Support  
Addendum (SSA 26.57.10-x). 
 
The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your 
local DIGITAL office for the most up-to-date information.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions. For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility. License 
units for this product are allocated on a CPU capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Management Facility Manual of the VMS Operating System Documentation Set. 

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY
 
Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

July 1989
AE-CJ20K-TE
