VMS Workstation Software, Version 4.2				SPD 28.06.10

DESCRIPTION

VMS Workstation Software (VWS) is a VMS layered product that provides 
windowing and graphics support for the VAXstation II, VAXstation II/GPX, 
VAXstation 2000, VAXstation 3100, VAXstation 3200 and VAXstation 3500.

VWS supports VAXstations with windowing, VT200 series terminal emulation 
with technical character set, TEK4014 (R) and TEK4125 (R)terminal emulation, a 
simple mouse-based human interface for window manipulation, a graphics 
programming interface, Hard Copy (HCUIS) for applications requiring 
hardcopy output, VWS/SIGHT (an easy-to-use tool that enables the user to 
create graphics), and a Migration Tools kit to assist users in migrating 
UIS applications to the DECwindows platform.

Features

oo   Multiple Overlapping Windowing System -- By means of the mouse, 
    multiple windows can be created, moved, overlapped and resized at will. 
    Windows can be popped to the top of the screen or pushed to the bottom 
    of the screen stacking order. Windows can also be created and 
    manipulated under program control.

oo   VT200 series terminal and TEK4014, TEK4125 Emulation -- Multiple VT200, 
    series terminals or TEK4014 windows can be present on the screen at the 
    same time.

oo   ReGIS Color Support -- Provides VT240-compatible subset of video-ReGIS 
    graphics.  Hardcopy output is provided only through the UIS print 
    screen service.

oo   Simple User Interface -- By means of the mouse, the keyboard can be 
    switched to an alternate window, new VT200-series windows created, or 
    the screen printed to an LA100, LA120, LA210, LA50, LA75 or LJ250 
    hardcopy devices.

oo   Workstation Setup -- Enables the workstation characteristics to be 
    configured to customer requirements.

oo   On-line Help is available on the user interface.

oo   Programming Interface -- For workstation application development, a 
    graphics and windowing programming interface called User Interface 
    Service (UIS) is provided.

oo   Device Driver Interface -- For applications with special requirements, 
    a device driver interface to the graphics hardware is provided.

oo   Hardcopy Graphics Support -- For applications requiring the generation 
    of hardcopy output of graphics, Hardcopy UIS (HCUIS) is provided.  
    HCUIS enables applications to translate UIS display lists to the 
    formats needed to print them on a variety of hardcopy devices.  The 
    HCUIS routines also enables applications to create UIS files from the 
    UIS display list.  The HCUIS DCL interface also enables users to 
    translate UIS files to the formats needed to print them on a variety of 
    hardcopy devices.

oo   SIGHT (Simple Interactive Graphics Handling Tool) -- Enables the user 
    to create graphics on a workstation. These graphics are stored in files 
    for graphic output to hardcopy devices. These files can then be updated 
    and/or transferred/copied to other supported VAXstations.

oo   UIS to DDIF Converter -- This tool allows the conversion of .UIS files, 
    created by Hardcopy UIS (this includes SIGHT files) into any output 
    format supported by the CDA Converter Library.

oo   DECwindows X11 Server -- Enables the user running VWS to create a VWS 
    window that is an entire DECwindows environment.  The user can then 
    cycle between this "window" and other VWS windows offering the ability 
    to run applications in both environments without rebooting.

oo   A Guide to Migrating VWS Applications to DECwindows -- This document 
    provides information to aid software developers and architects in 
    migrating existing UIS applications to the DECwindows platform by 
    pointing out the differences between the two platforms and by providing 
    programming examples in a ported application written specifically for 
    this purpose.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System 
Support Addendum (SSA 28.06.10-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required 
    versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 28.06.10-x).

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-A96A*-AA
Software Media: QA-A96A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-A96AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-A96A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
    licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's 
Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about DIGITAL's 
licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License 
Managent Facility Manual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

For more information about DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact 
your local DIGITAl office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL.  For more 
information contact your local DIGITAL office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the purchase 
of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum 
of this SPD.

(R) TEK4014 and TEK4125 are registered trademarks of Tektronix, Inc.

