 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1
	  SPD 25.R7.01

          DESCRIPTION

          DECwrite for VMS is a compound document processing application
          that allows VMS users to create and format documents which
          contain text, graphics, images and supported application data.
          DECwrite automates the steps of document production from text
          entry, formatting and graphics creation to printing.

          DECwrite is compliant with Digital's Compound Document Archi-
          tecture (CDA) and, therefore, can take advantage of the CDA
          converter architecture and system level support. This system
          level support includes the ability to mail compound documents
          across the enterprise.

          DECwrite runs under VMS DECwindows (included with VMS Operating
          System) and utilizes a graphical What-You-See-Is-What-You-Get
          (WYSIWYG) interface.

          The WYSIWYG interface displays the document on the screen as it
          will print. DECwrite adheres to the DECwindows Style Guide and
          has the same look and feel as other DECwindows applications.

          DECwrite combines word processing, publishing, graphics cre-
          ation, data driven charting, image integration and live links
          to supported application data. A DECwrite user can create so-
          phisticated compound documents for distribution throughout the
          enterprise.


                                       DIGITAL               November 1990

                                                               AE-NW34B-TE

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          Features

          User Interface

          DECwrite presents functions through a graphical user interface.
          Functions are represented through straightforward menu selec-
          tions and icons. DECwrite features a menu bar with pull-down
          menus at the top of the document window. These menus contain
          the top-level items such as File, Edit, Search, Type, Elements,
          Style, Draw, Links, Customize, and Help. The combination of
          pull-down menus, keyboard sequences, and dialogue boxes con-
          tain all of the functions needed to utilize DECwrite. The menus
          also display the keyboard equivalents provided to perform these
          functions from the keyboard.

          In addition to the pull-down menus, DECwrite provides four
          context sensitive pop-up menus. These menus pop up near the
          pointer position for easy access. The pop-up menus include the
          most frequently used editing features for text and graphics, as
          well as the entries for the most commonly used element styles
          and objects.

          DECwrite provides language switching which allows users to se-
          lect a language from the DECwindows Session Manager to determine
          the user interface language for DECwrite.

          The user interface also features the following:

          o  A vertical and horizontal scroll bar

          o  Rulers with tracking and grids for easy placement of text
             blocks and objects

          o  Snap to ruler on or off

          o  Status display boxes which display information such as the
             current page number, first and last page, current style, text
             block connections, and graphic object size.

          Help

          DECwrite features context sensitive help on many functions. The
          Help provides detailed information on how to utilize DECwrite
          features and aids the user in becoming proficient in creating
          DECwrite documents. In addition, an online demonstration which

                                          2

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          aids the user in learning DECwrite concepts can be accessed from
          Help.

          Editor

          DECwrite includes a full word processing editor with functions
          such as select, cut, copy, paste, undo, redo and navigation.
          DECwrite features sophisticated search and replace capabilities
          including the ability to search for returns, special characters
          and arbitrary white space.

          Advanced editorial features such as redlining, change bars,
          and change pages make DECwrite an appropriate application for
          documentation and publication groups.

          DECwrite includes Houghton Mifflin's high-quality hyphenation
          routines and a British lexicon (included with the British ver-
          sion only).

          DECwrite allows the user to create exception dictionaries for
          words that would not commonly appear in a standard dictionary.
          The exception dictionaries can be kept locally or used globally
          in a DECwrite workgroup. Hyphenation can also be controlled with
          discretionary hyphens.

          DECwrite supports multiple language hyphenation. For example,
          French and German may be used within the same document. Sup-
          ported language hyphenation includes: Dutch, English (American
          and British), French, Spanish, Italian, German, Swedish, Norwe-
          gian, Portuguese, Finnish and Danish.

          DECwrite allows users to verify and correct spelling in multiple
          languages. For example, when French and German are used within
          a document, the spelling of the words in those languages is
          checked if the French and German optional lexicons are added
          to the system. Optional language lexicons are available. Refer
          to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.R7.01-A) for further
          information.

                                          3

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          In addition, the user may verify and correct word usage and
          access an electronic thesaurus for American English. 1

          DECwrite emulates several keyboard styles including GOLD KEY for
          WPS-PLUS compatibility, WordPerfect[TM] and Microsoft[R] Word;
          EVE, EDT, and EMACS for technical users and a DECwrite specific
          keyboard interface.

          LiveLink

          DECwrite includes a LiveLink capability which allows the user
          to link a variety of supported applications and their data to
          DECwrite documents. Data that is linked to DECwrite becomes
          part of the DECwrite document and may be automatically updated
          when the document is next edited. Conversely, updates can be
          controlled by the user so that they occur only when desired.
          Links to applications can be modified or deleted by the user at
          any time.

          DECwrite can link to data wherever it exists in the network as
          long as the user has privileges to access the data. Links can be
          specified with several file location types. These include: with
          the document, in a private library, in a network library, and in
          a system library. This file type location tells DECwrite where
          to look for the linked data and how the compound document should
          be packaged for mailing.

          Applications which can be LiveLinked to DECwrite include:

          o  DECdecision (refer to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section in the
             System Support Addendum )

          o  DECview3D (refer to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section in the
             System Support Addendum)

          o  DECpaint (included with DECwindows)

          o  DECchart (included with DECwrite and DECdecision)

          o  DECwrite Equation Editor (included with DECwrite)


                                          4

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          Links to DECdecision

          DECdecision is a VMS workstation-based decision support appli-
          cation that runs under VMS DECwindows and is comprised of four
          major software components:

          o  ACCESS, for ad-hoc queries

          o  CALC, for analyzing financial and business data

          o  DECchart, for generating business graphs

          o  BUILDER, for recording and automating repetitive tasks across
             applications

          DECwrite can live link to any of these components to combine
          tables, charts, text, and graphics into one document.

          Links to Data

          In addition, it is possible to link to other DECwrite documents,
          to DDIF pictures and images, or to final form data such as
          ENCAPSULATED PostScript[R] files.

          Converters

          DECwrite utilizes the CDA converter architecture to interchange
          data with other applications. The converter architecture assures
          that a variety of formats can be converted to Digital's Document
          Interchange Format (DDIF) which is DECwrite's file format.

          The converters included with DECwrite include a two-way DX
          converter which allows WPS-PLUS documents to be brought into
          and written out of DECwrite, and a one way smart text import
          function for converting ASCII text into DDIF.

          DECwrite also includes WK1, DIF, CALC$GRD, and ASCII Tabular
          converters allowing data from these formats to be imported into
          DECchart.

          Additional converters are available through the CDA Converter
          Library for VMS. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA
          25.R7.01-A) for further information).

                                          5

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          Export to Bookreader

          DECwrite provides the ability for users to export their DECwrite
          documents into Bookreader format to allow creation of online
          documentation.

          Text Styles

          DECwrite allows users to create text styles for the following
          types of elements:

          o  Paragraphs

          o  Titles

          o  Lists

          o  Footnotes

          o  Table of contents

          o  Indexes

          Users have full formatting control through the use of styles. By
          modifying the style attributes of text elements, the user can
          create other styles such as abstracts and subheads.

          Users may copy and then modify the default styles supplied with
          DECwrite, or they may create new styles of their own. These
          user-defined styles are linked to documents and may be used in
          any number of documents. In addition, style files may be shared
          among users.

          This method of applying styles to elements allows the document
          content to remain separate from the document format. The user
          has total control over document appearance. Style information
          is entered into fill-in-the-blank style sheets. These style
          sheets allow a user to change point sizes, fonts, leading,
          justification modes and the other text style attributes of
          elements.

                                          6

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          Document appearance is automatically modified when the user
          changes the definition of a style. A user can give an element a
          new style at any time. For example, a user can change all main
          heads into subheads by simply applying a subhead style. Styles
          may be changed globally which makes DECwrite an appropriate
          product for long documents.

          When local changes are desired, such as bolding a word, the user
          may utilize the bold key, the type menu, or the text attributes
          box which lists a variety of rendition attributes such as fonts,
          pointsizes, slant, etc. This gives the user flexibility in
          making quick one-time changes versus global style changes.

          Page Composition and Pagination

          DECwrite provides a variety of layout functions for text, pages,
          and documents. Text styles are previously discussed separately.
          (Refer to Text Styles.) Pages are formatted through page styles.
          Page styles can be defined for single or double-sided pages.
          Any number of page styles can be used in a document for maximum
          layout flexibility. Items such as running headers and foot-
          ers, logos, and page or column rules which appear repetitively
          throughout the document can be stored as part of page styles,
          and are automatically placed on each page.

          A user may choose to create the page layouts of a document
          through a dialogue box or to interactively create page layouts
          for specific pages. DECwrite automatically links text flows
          from column to column and page to page, or a user may connect
          text flows in a non-contiguous fashion for documents such as
          newsletters.

          The formatting capabilities provided with DECwrite include:

          o  Automatic pagination with auto page numbering

          o  Running headers and footers which may contain graphics or
             text

                                          7

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          o  Up to 100 columns per page with the ability to freely mix a
             variable number of columns per page, e.g., two columns at the
             top of a page and three at the bottom

          o  Hyphenation according to dictionary or algorithm

          o  Alignment (justified, ragged-right, ragged-left, or centered)

          o  Vertical justification

          o  Widow and orphan control

          o  Manual kerning

          o  Font scaling from 2-300 point type in .01 point increments

          o  Support for installation of additional fonts

          o  Support for the ISO-Latin 1 character set

          o  Macros for user-defined functions

          o  Hierarchical lists and sublists with automatic "numbering"
             (numeric, alphabetic or characters) and user-controlled
             indents

          o  Automatic numbering of sections, chapters, headings, para-
             graphs, lists, sublists, footnotes, and appendices

          o  Automatic cross-referencing

          o  Numeric references for footnotes. Superscripting of footnote
             references automatically generated













                                          8

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01




          o  Sidenotes

          o  Redlining, change bars and change pages

          o  Spell Corrector, Usage Alert, (American English only) and
             Electronic Thesaurus (American English only)

          o  Generation of table of contents and index (up to four levels
             for entries)

          o  Right, left, center and decimal tabs

          o  Equation editor

          o  LiveLinks to other supported applications

          o  Ability to mix portrait and landscape pages within a document

          Link to Document

          DECwrite includes a Link to Document function which allows the
          user to link files together to form a complete document. Chap-
          ters and pages are correctly numbered and a table of contents or
          index may be generated for the entire document. This feature al-
          lows users to work on different sections of a document and then
          easily combine those into a consecutively numbered document.
          This feature allows DECwrite to be utilized in a multi-author
          environment.

          Graphics Editor

          DECwrite includes an object-oriented graphics editor which con-
          tains the following objects - line, square, rectangle, circle,
          ellipse, arc, polygon and polyline. Objects may be filled with
          patterns or shaded, and their outlines may be solid, dotted,

                                          9

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          dashed, or a pattern. Objects may also be drawn in a wide vari-
          ety of line weights. A freehand drawing tool is also provided.

          Annotation arrows with filled, open, double or single arrowheads
          can be easily applied to drawings or on top of images. Text
          labels may be placed next to the arrows to identify parts of a
          drawing.

          All graphic objects, including text labels, can be sized and
          scaled visually to a percentage or to exact dimensions. Align-
          ment, duplication and space distribution features allow the user
          to easily create diagrams, schematics, flowcharts, etc.

          Graphics can be placed anywhere within a document including
          above or below text, or in running headers and footers. Graph-
          ics may be placed in frames which can be anchored to various
          reference points in text or to a particular place on a page,
          including the margin.

          DECchart

          The DECchart component is an easy to use and easy to learn data
          charting application that allows users to create professional
          business graphics for their compound documents. Users need only
          specify two things, the data to be charted and the chart style
          desired. A chart is automatically generated. DECchart features
          include:

          o  Nine predefined chart types: Bar, Column, Line, Pie, Area,
             Scatter, Hi-Lo, Histogram, Combination

          o  Up to 45 chart style variations from which to choose

          o  Ability to modify predefined chart styles to create user
             defined chart styles

          o  Import data from: Lotus 1-2-3[R], DECalc and DECalc-PLUS,
             DECgraph, DIF, and ASCII files, and tables from DECdecision

          o  Easy to use worksheet interface for data entry, modification
             and manipulation (cut, copy, and paste data in the worksheet)

                                         10

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          o  Automatic trend line generation for scatter charts

          o  Graphic annotation, overlay: text, lines, rectangles and
             arrowheads anywhere on a chart for emphasis and customization

          o  Color support, assigning color attributes to: axes, baseline,
             frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, column and bar fills
             and overlay objects.

          o  Modification of chart attributes including: axes, baseline,
             data values, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, drop
             shadows, bar spacing and bar overlap

          o  Modification of text attributes, changing: font size, family,
             weight and slant

          o  File flexibility: saving data, chart style, chart overlay and
             color selections separately or save everything together

          o  Selectable fill patterns, line patterns, marker types and
             attributes

          o  Customization with user preferences

          o  Ability to move and resize overlay objects














                                         11

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          Images and Graphic Formats

          DECwrite can link to black and white, gray scale and color
          images. Images can be scanned in with the DECimage Scan Software
          and the MD-300 Scanner and TIFF images can be imported via an
          optional converter. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA
          25.R7.01-A) for further information on the CDA Converter Library
          for VMS).

          Image files created with DECwindows Paint can also be linked
          into DECwrite. Once images are in a DECwrite document they can
          be annotated, scaled or cropped.

          Encapsulated PostScript files may be linked into DECwrite and if
          the Display PostScript[TM] extension to DECwindows is installed
          these graphics will be displayed on the screen.

          Optional graphic converters are available in the CDA Converter
          Library for VMS (refer to the System Support Addendum for fur-
          ther information).

          Document Styles

          DECwrite includes thirteen predefined document styles; example,
          letter, manual, memo, Mil Spec, newsletter, price list, report,
          portrait slide, landscape slide, technical slide, technical
          journal and telephone directory. These document styles can be
          used as is, with other documents, or they can be easily modified
          by the user to suit any specifications.

          High Quality Output

          DECwrite provides high-quality output to Digital Post-
          Script printers such as the ScriptPrinter (LN03R), the
          PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40, and the PrintServer 40 Plus.

          DECchart can output to the PostScript printers listed above.


                                         12

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configuration as speci-
          fied in the System Support Addendum.

          Display Devices:

          DECwrite will run on any of the above processors, but requires
          either a workstation, a VT1200*, or an Intel 80286* or 80386*
          with PC DECwindows for display.

          *  Not recommended as replacements for workstation performance.

             Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.R7.01-A) for
             supported hardware configurations.

          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

          VMS Operating System and (necessary components of VMS DECwin-
          dows)

          *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.R7.01-A) for
             availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
             software.

          ORDERING INFORMATION ***

          Software Licenses: QL-VVFE9-PB
          Software Media: QA-VVFEA-H*
          Software Documentation: QA-VVFEA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-VVFE*-**

          *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
             able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
             price book.

          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

                                         13

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

          This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
          ity.

          License units for this product are allocated on a User/Activity
          basis.

          For more information on the License Management Facility refer
          to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
          25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
          Operating System documentation set.

          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available for more information,
          please contact your local Digital office.



















                                         14

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01



          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
          the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
          Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

          1    Usage Alert, Electronic Thesaurus, International Hy-

               phenators, and International CorrectSpell licensed from
               Houghton Mifflin Company. Copyright 1985, 1987, 1988 by
               Houghton Mifflin. German 1985, 1987 by Langenscheidt K.G.
               French in cooperation with Librairie Larousse. Italian
               1988 by Nicola Zanichelli. All rights reserved. U.S. Pat.
               Nos. 4,580,241, 4,724,523 and 4,771,401. Canadian Pat. No.
               1,203,916. Thesaurus U.S. Pat. No. 4,724,523. English based
               upon The American Heritage Dictionary. Thesaurus based
               upon Roget's II Thesaurus. Reproduction or disassembly of
               embodied computer programs or algorithms prohibited.

          [R]  Lotus 1-2-3 is a registered trademark of Lotus Development
               Corporation.

          [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

          [R]  Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpora-
               tion.

          [R]  MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

          [TM] Display PostScript is a trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

          [TM] WordPerfect is a trademark of WordPerfect Corporation.

          [TM] HPGL is a trademark of Hewlett-Packard Corporation.





                                         15

 


          DECwrite/British for VMS, Version 1.1               SPD 25.R7.01




          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, DECwrite, DECchart, DECdecision,
               DECwindows, DDIF, DX, EVE, EDT, GOLD KEY, LiveLink, LVP16,
               MicroVAX, VAX, VMS, VAXstation, VAXserver, PrintServer 20,
               PrintServer 40, PrintServer 40 Plus, LN03 and WPS-PLUS are
               trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

































                                         16
