 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  POLYCENTER Network Manager 400, Version 2.4      SPD
                         (Formerly DECmcc Enterprise Management
 31.88.05                Station, EMS)

 DESCRIPTION

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 is a network management software prod-
 uct designed to provide network managers with a complete set of ap-
 plications to manage wide area heterogeneous networks.

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 consolidates Digital Equipment Cor-
 poration's network management applications within a Motif[R] environ-
 ment and provides the capability of running all applications on a sin-
 gle system. It consists of products that are compliant with Digital's
 Enterprise Management Architecture (EMA) as well as products that are
 not EMA-compliant. As such, POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 is a tran-
 sition vehicle to an EMA-compliant product set within a single soft-
 ware product.

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 consists of the following Digital
 network management products:

 o  POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 (formerly called DECmcc Basic Man-
    agement System (BMS)

 o  POLYCENTER Network Fault Diagnostics Option

 o  POLYCENTER Extended LAN Management (ELM) Option

 o  POLYCENTER Terminal Server Access Module (TSAM) Option

 o  LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM) OpenVMS Point Product

 o  NMCC/VAX ETHERnim Point Product

 o  Terminal Server Manager (TSM) Point Product

                               DIGITAL                  January 1995

                                                         AE-PAW9G-TE

 

 In addition to containing the products listed above, POLYCENTER Net-
 work Manager 400 supports the ability to install and run other Open-
 VMS layered products within a Motif environment. POLYCENTER Network
 Manager 400 also provides access to non-Digital management products
 that are based on X11 standards. These products can be installed on
 the same or separate processors as POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 for
 the purpose of consolidating interfaces on a single workstation dis-
 play.

 Also included with the POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 components is
 the Network Troubleshooting Guide. Available through the Motif Bookreader
 application, the Network Troubleshooting Guide provides POLYCENTER Net-
 work Manager 400 users with a systematic, on-line approach to solv-
 ing some of the most common problems that occur on DECnet/OSI for Open-
 VMS VAX, DECnet/OSI for ULTRIX, Ethernet, and TCP/IP networks.

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200

 (Formerly called DECmcc Basic Management System, BMS)

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 is a complete, prepackaged POLY-
 CENTER Product Family management system for multivendor, multi-protocol
 networks. It provides access to, and management functions for, Dig-
 ital Equipment Corporation's ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS (DECnet Phase IV, DEC-
 net/OSI, and TCP/IP) and open network environments. The POLYCENTER Net-
 work Manager 200 is a modular software product that can be extended
 through the addition of other POLYCENTER products, third party, or user-
 developed software modules.

 Available on the OpenVMS and ULTRIX Operating Systems, the POLYCEN-
 TER Network Manager 200 provides both generic and device-specific man-
 agement functions including:

 o  Motif[R] Graphical User Interface (GUI) and Command Line User In-
    terfaces that provide consistent views and interactions with the
    management system regardless of the objects managed or the proto-
    cols used to manage them.



                                  2

 

 o  Configuration Management functions that include automated discov-
    ery and device registration, topology mapping, and user-defined man-
    agement domains.

 o  Notification and Alarm functions that enable users to define alarm
    rules and set up notification and automated procedures to locate
    existing and potential network problems or events. Enhanced Alarm
    copy and modify capabilities are present in this release of the prod-
    uct.

 o  Historical Data Recording and Data Export functions that allow users
    to define, collect, timestamp, and re-use historical network data
    and export POLYCENTER management information to an external rela-
    tional data base.

 o  Device-specific Performance Statistics functions for DECnet Phase
    IV and DECnet/OSI nodes; Digital LAN Bridges; and TCP/IP hosts.

 Consistent with the EMA Director Model, of which it is an implemen-
 tation, the POLYCENTER Framework consists of four major elements that
 comprise an extensible management system: Management Modules; an Ex-
 ecutive; an open Applications Program Interface (API); and a Manage-
 ment Information Repository (MIR).

 o  Management Modules provide services to users and to one another.
    There are three types of Management Modules:

    -  Function Modules (FMs) provide services such as object regis-
       tration, statistics generation, fault detection, and notifica-
       tion to users and to one another.

    -  Access Modules (AMs) provide remote protocol support for, and
       management information about, different classes of managed ob-
       jects.

    -  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user interface
       for the direct manipulation of managed objects (through AMs) and
       user access to management operations (through FMs).

 o  The Executive provides system services that enable Management Mod-
    ules to be installed and used independently or in combination.

                                  3

 

 o  The Applications Programming Interface (API) defines how Manage-
    ment Modules invoke each other's services. The POLYCENTER Frame-
    work API is open and documented to support Digital, third party,
    or user-developed modules.

 o  The Management Information Repository (MIR) provides a means to struc-
    ture and store management information.

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Function Modules

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 includes generic and device-specific
 FMs that provide a variety of management services to end users and,
 in combination, to one another. These services include configuration
 management functions, fault management functions including alarm and
 notification services, historical data recording and data export func-
 tions, and performance statistics functions.

 Generic FM services provide support for devices accessible through the
 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 AMs, other Digital-developed AMs, or
 AMs developed and supported by third parties and users.

 Configuration Management Functions

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Configuration Management functions in-
 clude both manual and automatic registration of managed objects, and
 support for user-defined domains (groups of managed objects). These
 functions are provided by the following POLYCENTER Network Manager 200
 FMs and services:

 The Registration FM is a generic FM that enables users to enter and
 manage data identifying each managed object in a network environment.
 Such information includes object instance data such as network names
 and addresses, and reference information such as device location, soft-
 ware revision levels, and contact names.






                                  4

 

 With the Registration FM, users have the option of selecting a local
 system-level repository, or setting up a network-wide, globally-available
 naming service using Digital's Distributed Name Service (DECdns). With
 DECdns, users and applications can assign names to resources (such as
 nodes, bridges, files, domain names, etc.) and then use those resources
 without having to keep track of physical location or network address.
 The DECdns option also enables multiple POLYCENTER Managers to share
 the same view of managed objects.

 The Domain FM is a generic FM that enables users to assign managed ob-
 jects into groups called domains. Domains are subsets of the managed
 object configuration that provide user-defined groups that can be based
 on equipment type (all DECnet nodes, all TCP/IP hosts, all LAN Bridges,
 etc.), geography (all objects within a LAN, building, campus, or sub-
 net), personnel levels, or any other user-defined object group. Do-
 mains can contain or refer to other domains and can be hierarchical
 or overlapping. Individual managed objects can be contained within mul-
 tiple domains.

 Autoconfiguration services automatically locate, register, and map man-
 aged objects by class. Supported classes include DECnet Phase IV nodes,TCP
 /IP hosts, and Digital FDDI devices and LAN Bridges. Note that DEC-
 net OSI support is included with DNS Autotopology mechanism. Users can
 define domains for each class, and set network boundaries. The auto-
 configuration functions can request network instance data from DEC-
 net routers, IP gateways, and Bridge spanning trees. As devices are
 located and management information gathered, the functions automat-
 ically map them in the appropriate user-defined domains and register
 management data in the MIR.

 Note: This function requires that the appropriate POLYCENTER Access Mod-
 ules be installed on the POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 system to reg-
 ister objects. The DECnet Phase IV, DECnet/OSI, and TCP/IP SNMP AMs
 are included in POLYCENTER Network Manager 200. The POLYCENTER ELM Ac-
 cess Module must be purchased separately to support LAN Bridge and FDDI
 autoconfiguration topology mapping. Refer to the POLYCENTER ELM SPD
 (31.33.xx) for more information about the POLYCENTER ELM products.



                                  5

 

 IP Reachability Poller sends notification to POLYCENTER Network Man-
 ager 200 Notification Services when a specific IP node changes state
 (ie. becomes reachable or unreachable). It provides POLYCENTER Net-
 work Manager 200 an efficient manner to determine if IP nodes are reach-
 able or not.

 Alarm and Notification Services

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 alarm and notification services are pro-
 vided by a combination of Management Modules. These modules enable users
 to create alarm rules that can detect existing or potential network
 problems, and notification mechanisms for informing users when such
 problems occur or network events happen.

 The Alarms FM provides facilities for users to write rule-based ex-
 pressions (alarm rules) that use polled data or unsolicited event mes-
 sages to trigger alarms. Alarm rules can be written for any managed
 object or entity class for which there is corresponding Access Mod-
 ule protocol support (DECnet Phase IV NICE, SNMP, etc.). Alarm rules
 can be based on state changes, simple arithmetic expressions, or oc-
 currences (unsolicited event messages received through the appropri-
 ate Access Module). Alarm rules can be written for individual managed
 objects or wildcarding can be used to apply rules to all objects in
 a domain for a given object class.

 In addition to the standard POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 notifica-
 tion functions described below, the Alarms FM allows for the execu-
 tion of user-written command procedures. Such command procedures can
 be used to generate terminal broadcast or electronic mail messages,
 or automated procedures that a network manager or operator might im-
 plement when a particular alarm condition occurs.

 In combination with the Network Statistics (also known as the Perfor-
 mance Analysis FM) described below, the alarm functions can be used
 to create threshold alarms based on performance statistics for DEC-
 net Nodes, TCP/IP hosts, RMON probes, or Digital LAN Bridges. In this
 way, alarm rules allow users to detect potential problems before they
 become major network faults.


                                  6

 

 The Notification FM and PM enable users to define the mechanisms used
 to alert operators when a particular network or system event has oc-
 curred. The functions recognize two types of events: configuration events,
 which are reported by a managed object or POLYCENTER Management Mod-
 ule; and alarm events, which are generated by the Alarms FM whenever
 a rule fires or encounters an error (i.e., an exception to the rule).

 When an event occurs, the Motif/Iconic Map PM displays a color change
 on the appropriate object icon and a message in the Notification win-
 dow. Users can define the severity levels and select colors appropri-
 ate to the problem level. POLYCENTER Notification also enables users
 to customize event collection and storage in the following ways:

 o  Logging: logging can be used to store received events to disk. Log
    files are automatically created and purged based on user-definable
    arguments.

 o  Filter: users can filter received events based on the following cri-
    teria: managed object, domain, severity level, message text, or event
    /alarm type.

 o  Target: Notifications (icon color changes) can be redirected from
    the object that generates the event to the object that is the sub-
    ject of the event.

 o  Search: users can search received notifications based on the fol-
    lowing criteria: any field, severity level, notification identi-
    fier, name or address, text description, time stamp, or domain name.

 o  View: users can display a Real-time Graph of the number of noti-
    fications being displayed, collected and filtered; histogram of all
    notifications grouped by severity level; and the maximum notifi-
    cation buffer size.

 o  Change default start-up: users can assign customized colors to the
    six notification severity levels.




                                  7

 

 The Event Collector AM (also known as the Data Collector AM) enables
 users to collect events from objects not directly managed by POLYCEN-
 TER Network Manager. Users can create customized icons for any object
 not directly managed by POLYCENTER Network Manager and include it in
 the Iconic Map.

 The Event Collector AM provides a programming interface and a command
 script interface. The programming interface allows users to include
 code in any application program to send events to POLYCENTER Frame-
 work for display in the Iconic Map or Notification window. The com-
 mand script interface enables users to use OpenVMS DCL command pro-
 cedures or ULTRIX shell scripts to send events to the POLYCENTER Frame-
 work for display in the Iconic Map or Notification window. The trans-
 port mechanisms over which events can be collected have been expanded
 in this version to include both UDP/IP and DECnet.

 Historical Data Collection and Data Export

 Historical Data Collection and Data Export functions are provided by
 the Historian and Exporter FMs. These generic FMs enable users to col-
 lect, time stamp, and store network data for use by other POLYCENTER
 FMs, such as the Performance Analyzer FM, and export data to exter-
 nal relational databases for addition processing and report writing.

 o  The Historian FM enables users to define the type of data to be col-
    lected, the managed objects or management applications from which
    the data is to be collected, and the collection interval.

 o  The Exporter FM, when used with a separate, external relational data
    base and report writing tools, can be used to create customized net-
    work usage reports. The historical data recording and data export
    functions can also be used in combination with other POLYCENTER FMs
    to gather statistics, status, and configuration data.

 Note: Use of the Export FM requires that Rdb Runtime for OpenVMS sys-
 tems or ULTRIX/SQL for RISC/ULTRIX systems be installed on the tar-
 get system - the system to which the data is to be exported.



                                  8

 

 Network Statistics Functions

 Network Statistics FM enables users to access real-time or histori-
 cal performance statistics and reports on DECnet, Digital LAN Bridge,
 and TCP/IP objects (including RMON probes). Sample error, traffic, and
 statistics reports are also provided.

 The Performance Analyzer FM provides data normalization and statis-
 tical functions for DECnet nodes, TCP/IP hosts, RMON probes and Dig-
 ital LAN Bridges.

 Note: LAN Bridge statistics require that the POLYCENTER ELM AM and FM
 option be installed on POLYCENTER Network Manager 200. Counters for
 DECnet node and TCP/IP hosts are gathered by the DECnet AMs and TCP
 /IP SNMP AM respectively, which are included with POLYCENTER Network
 Manager 200.

 Assuming that the appropriate Access Modules are installed, the Per-
 formance Analyzer FM supports the following objects/devices:

 o  DECnet Phase IV lines (DDCMP, Ethernet, X.25), circuits (DDCMP, Eth-
    ernet, X.25), and nodes (local and remote)

 o  DECnet/OSI end systems, datalinks (DDCMP, CSMACD, and HDLC), in-
    termediate systems (routing systems), routing ports, and routing
    circuits

 o  Bridge lines (LAN100, LAN150, LAN200, DECbridge 500, and DECbridge
    600)

 o  TCP/IP Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), Exterior Gate-
    way Protocol (EGP), Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP), IN-
    TERFACE (the network interface such as Ethernet), Internet Proto-
    col (IP), Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), User Datagram Pro-
    tocol (UDP), EGP Neighbor table, SNMP child entity, and RMON.

 The Performance Analyzer FM supports the following classes of network
 statistics:

 o  Throughput - the amount of data that is sent between two points in
    a specified unit of time.

                                  9

 

 o  Averages - such as Average Outbound Block Size and Average Outbound
    Message Size

 o  Overhead - the amount of control overhead present for circuits and
    lines

 o  Percents - percent of total traffic or resource availability

 o  Rates - the counts over a specified period of time

 o  Utilization - ratio of real or rated throughput to the actual through-
    put expressed as a percentage, such as Outbound Utilization and Sin-
    gle Destination Utilization

 o  Counts - the normalized value of counters

 These statistics, like all other numeric attributes collected or gen-
 erated by POLYCENTER network management software, can be displayed as
 graphs or histograms in the Graphic Window that is part of the Motif
 GUI Iconic Map interface included with the POLYCENTER Framework, POLY-
 CENTER Network Manager 200, and POLYCENTER Network Manager 400 prod-
 ucts.

 Sample Reports are included with POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 and
 are based on counters and statistics generated by the Performance An-
 alyzer FM.

 Note: Data used for creating the sample reports must be exported to an
 external relational database using the Exporter FM. In addition, gen-
 erating and setting up the sample reports requires the following soft-
 ware products:

 o  For OpenVMS: CDD Repository, DATATRIEVE, and DECgraph

 o  For ULTRIX: INGRES[TM] Tools for SQL including: INGRES Base Tools
    (with Report-Writer[TM]) and INGRES/Visual-Graphics-Editor (VIGRAPH[TM]).

 o  The sample reports include: traffic, error, traffic summary, er-
    ror summary and bandwidth utilization for DECnet Phase IV, DECnet
    /OSI and TCP/IP SNMP.

                                 10

 

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Access Modules

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 AMs provide access to network and sys-
 tem objects in Digital's ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS and other mixed, multi-
 vendor network environments that use the following management proto-
 cols: DECnet NICE, DECnet/OSI CMIP, SNMP, and IEEE 802.2/Ethernet/MOP.

 o  The DECnet Phase IV AM enables users to manage DECnet Phase IV ob-
    jects such as nodes, circuits, lines, and adjacencies. With the DEC-
    net Phase IV AM, users can modify DECnet parameters, set charac-
    teristics, collect DECnet events, and poll for management data such
    as counters or status.

 o  The DECnet/OSI CMIP AM provides access to DECnet devices that use
    DIGITAL's implementation of the standard Common Management Infor-
    mation Protocol (CMIP). This version of CMIP, implemented on DEC-
    net/OSI devices, provides management operations and data gather-
    ing functions for DECnet/OSI networks including the ability to sink
    DECnet events to the POLYCENTER Framework.

 o  The TCP/IP SNMP AM includes support for the following Internet Ad-
    visory Board (IAB) Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) RFCs:
    1155, 1156, 1157, 1212, and 1213. This includes full MIB II sup-
    port in addition to support for on-site enrollment of vendor-specific
    Enterprise MIBs including:

    -  A MIB translation utility that automatically checks the syntax
       of the ASN.1 Concise MIB definition (providing error messages
       to help identify syntax problems) and translates the data for
       loading the information into the POLYCENTER Framework's Manage-
       ment Information Repository (MIR). The translation utility au-
       tomatically generates on-line HELP.

    -  An event-logging sink for collecting SNMP generic traps (unso-
       licited TCP/IP event messages) including: coldStart, warmStart,
       linkDown, linkUp, egpNeighborLoss, authentificationFailure, and
       enterpriseSpecific. Vendor Specific Traps are also supported with
       this release of the product.

    -  Ability to perform GET and SET operations on devices supported
       by SNMP agents.

                                 11

 

    -  ICMP ECHO_REQUEST (ping) support for verifying the reachabil-
       ity of an SNMP managed object at the IP level.

    Note: DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS (UCX) is required for using
    the TCP/IP SNMP AM on OpenVMS systems.

 o  The IEEE 802.3/Ethernet Station AM enables users to manage at the
    network interface level any 802.3/Ethernet LAN device that supports
    MOP REQID, MOP SYSID, MOP Counters, Ethernet V2 Loopback, IEEE 802.2
    XID, or IEEE 802.2 Test.

 o  Circuit AM works as a client of management protocol modules to pro-
    vide management of circuits connecting endpoints compliant with the
    Network Management Forum (NMF) definitions. Compliant endpoints in-
    clude DECnet Phase IV and DECnet/OSI nodes, and TCP/IP hosts. Ty-
    ing together circuit, line, link, and other end-point data, this
    AM can gather status data and store reference information about sim-
    ple, point-to-point circuits or complex multi-channel circuits.

 o  The Script AM is a generic access module that executes a script (or
    command procedure) and propagates the output data back into POLY-
    CENTER Network Manager 200 as individual attributes. Once integrated,
    these attributes can take advantage of the alarming, notification,
    and recording facilities of POLYCENTER Network Manager 200.

 o  The Script AM offers the following advantages:

    -  Allows integration of data into POLYCENTER Network Manager 200
       quickly and easily. No C code is required to write a script.

    -  Allows management of devices which provide only a command line
       interface.

    -  Allows integration of any data into POLYCENTER Network Manager
       200 as attributes whether from a Structured Query Language (SQL)
       command, a system command or running a script on a remote sys-
       tem.

    -  Allows integration of data from an executable for which source
       code is not available.

                                 12

 

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Presentation Modules

 The POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 includes two Presentation Modules.
 The Motif Graphical User Interface (GUI) provides an iconic map in-
 terface with pull-down and pop-up command and monitor windows that con-
 sistently present all managed objects and operations. Consistent ac-
 cess is also provided by the Forms and Command Line PM. The LAN Au-
 totopology PM is provided as an option.

 The capabilities specific to the Motif GUI presentation style include:

 o  Map windows that display the contents of a managed environment (for
    example, a domain) using icons to represent managed objects and their
    subordinate or child objects. Users can select icons representing
    managed objects and initiate management operations from a map win-
    dow. Several map windows can be displayed at one time, each dis-
    playing different views of domains of a managed environment.

 o  A Navigation box and ViewPort window that enable users to view an
    entire network configuration map at one time. With the ViewPort fea-
    ture, users can navigate to, and select a particular portion of,
    the total network environment to display in detail in the Map win-
    dow.

 o  Management windows that enable users to select, perform, and view
    the results of management operations. Like map windows, several dif-
    ferent management windows can be displayed simultaneously.

 o  Graph windows that enable users to select and display real-time or
    historical numeric attributes, such as counters, graphs or histograms.

 o  A Toolbox window and other customization features that provide users
    with the ability to create, modify, or delete map icons, connect-
    ing lines, text, or other items in a map window. Users can create
    map icons, add geographic maps or other backdrops, and add customized
    icons to the Toolbox for retrieval and re-use.




                                 13

 

 o  The POLYCENTER Dictionary Browser lets you examine the management
    objects and their definitions stored in the POLYCENTER Network Man-
    ager 200 dictionary. It provides an easy-to-use graphical alter-
    native to SHOW and DUMP commands available in the Dictionary Ad-
    ministrator Program. Using the Browser, the user can graphically
    view the types of entities that are configured for a POLYCENTER Net-
    work Manager 200.

 Forms and Command Line PM provides character cell access to POLYCEN-
 TER Network Manager function and access capabilities. The interface
 supports two modes, Command Line Mode and Forms Mode.

 Note: The Forms Mode is not available on ULTRIX.

 The Command Line mode enables users to create names or mnemonics and
 use special symbols to reduce data entry and eliminate input errors.
 It supports command line recall and editing, abbreviation, online help,
 symbol substitution, use of control key sequences, line continuation,
 and the typeahead function.

 Command Line mode also supports the use of scripts to automate fre-
 quently used POLYCENTER Network Manager command sequences. Users can
 set up initialization files through the Command Line mode for estab-
 lishing defaults and executing startup directives. In addition, users
 can log any command to an output file for storage and review.

 The Forms mode provides the basic features of the Command Line mode
 in addition to a scroll feature that enables users to save up to 500
 lines of output from management directives, scroll through the saved
 output, and create new directives based on previous input. The Forms
 mode also allows printing and logging of entries made to the output
 region.

 Both the Forms mode and the Command Line mode, as well as the Iconic
 Map interface, provide online, context-sensitive help.





                                 14

 

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 Extensibility

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 is an extensible management platform
 to which other POLYCENTER software modules, option packages, third party,
 or user-developed Management Modules can be added. For a list of Dig-
 ital Management Modules that can be added to the POLYCENTER Network
 Manager 200, refer to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE.

 Third parties and users can develop software modules for POLYCENTER
 Network Management Family of Products to provide access to and man-
 agement functions for any manageable object. Software and documenta-
 tion for the development of integrated POLYCENTER modules are avail-
 able as part of the POLYCENTER Framework Developer's Toolkit. For more
 information about the Developer's Toolkit, refer to SPD 32.49.xx.

 POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 includes several utilities that enable
 on-site enrollment of Management Modules. Documentation required for
 third party module enrollment must be supplied by the module devel-
 oper.

 POLYCENTER Network Fault Diagnostics Option

 The POLYCENTER Network Fault Diagnostics Option is a troubleshooting
 tool designed to simplify the process of isolating and resolving some
 of the most frequently occurring TCP/IP network problems quickly, min-
 imizing down-time and maximizing network efficiency. It uses common
 UNIX[R] Utilities and Bourne Shell scripts to retrieve information about
 a TCP/IP network.

 The POLYCENTER Network Fault Diagnostics Option comprises ten diag-
 nostic routines, a load check utility, a ping trace utility, and a ping
 utility. The diagnostic routines are:

 o  Diagnose host_unknown

 o  Diagnose host_unreachable

 o  Diagnose inetdaemon

 o  Diagnose network_unreachable

                                 15

 

 o  Diagnose nfs_problem

 o  Diagnose rcp_denied

 o  Diagnose rlogin_denied

 o  Diagnose rsh_denied

 o  Diagnose telnet_timeout

 o  Diagnose telnet_refused

 These routines are designed to assist users in isolating network faults
 such as component failures, improperly set parameters, and improper
 file protections. When a diagnostic routine is executed, the Fault Di-
 agnostic software determines the tests to execute. After the tests are
 executed, it produces a report containing test results and recommended
 actions an operator should take to repair or troubleshoot the prob-
 lem.

 The POLYCENTER Network Fault Diagnostics Option can diagnose problems
 between the station on which POLYCENTER Network Manager 200 resides
 and a remote host, or between two hosts that are remote from the POLY-
 CENTER Network Manager 200 station with the POLYCENTER Network Man-
 ager 200 station residing on a third host which is not involved in the
 reported problem.

 POLYCENTER Extended LAN Manager (ELM) Packages

 POLYCENTER Extended LAN (Local Area Network) Manager Packages are Open-
 VMS layered products that enable POLYCENTER Network Management Fam-
 ily of product users to configure, manage, monitor, and control LAN
 Bridge, DECbridge, and DECconcentrator 500 devices in the "Extended
 LAN" and FDDI network environment. The term LAN Bridge is used to re-
 fer to Digital Equipment Corporation's LAN Bridge 100, LAN Bridge 150,
 LAN Bridge 200, METROWAVE Bridge, and the Chipcom[R] Ethermodem[TM]
 Broadband Bridge. The term DECbridge is used to refer to Digital Equip-
 ment Corporation's DECbridge 500 and 600 Series products.


                                 16

 

 The LAN Bridge and DECbridge products are the primary building blocks
 of the "Extended LAN" architecture. An Extended LAN is a collection
 of LANs that are interconnected and logically appear as one large Lo-
 cal Area Network. The DECconcentrator family of products is the pri-
 mary building block of the FDDI network environment. Together these
 environments are physically and logically attached and extended via
 the DECbridge family of products. The DECbridge product line is the
 family of products that allows Ethernet and FDDI networks to commu-
 nicate transparently.

 The LAN Bridge and DECbridge products operate at the data link level,
 and FDDI DECconcentrators operate at the data link and physical link
 levels. Both product sets are transparent to upper-level protocols.

 This release of POLYCENTER Extended LAN Manager offers software which
 supersedes the DECelms product functionality for the POLYCENTER Net-
 work Manager 200 environment. The POLYCENTER Extended LAN Manager AM
 and FM modules together provide additional functionality than the DE-
 Celms product.

 The general characteristics of DECmcc Extended LAN Manager AM include:

 o  Remote management capabilities for FDDI and Ethernet devices on the
    same extended LAN

 o  Ability to observe, monitor, and control the interconnected FDDI
    and Ethernet networks

 o  Ability to display and modify devices and lines on the LAN Bridge
    and DECbridge family of products

 o  Ability to display and monitor physical ports on the DECbridge 500
    /600 Series and DECconcentrator 500

 o  Ability to display and modify spanning tree characteristics on the
    LAN Bridge and DECbridge family of products

 o  Ability to display and modify protocol database characteristics on
    LAN Bridge 200 and the DECbridge family of products

 o  Ability to display and modify forwarding database characteristics
    on the LAN Bridge and DECbridge family of products

                                 17

 

 o  Ability to enable and disable lines on LAN Bridge and DECbridge prod-
    ucts

 o  Ability to enable and disable physical ports on the DECconcentra-
    tor 500

 o  Ability to customize site specific alarms for the devices stored
    in the MIR (management information repository) for faults, errors,
    and changed information

 o  Displaying data-link counters, status, and characteristics on LAN
    bridges, DECbridges and DECconcentrators

 o  Remotely, but on the same extended LAN, invoke a device's self-test
    capabilities

 o  Simultaneous management access by multiple users

 o  On-line Help facility

 o  Similar display formats for all manageable devices

 o  Password protection for settable parameters (LAN Bridge 150, 200;
    DECbridge 500/600 Series, and DECconcentrator 500)

 o  Load and modify source address and protocol filtering tables (LAN
    Bridge 200 and DECbridge 500 and 600 Series)

 o  Display Ethernet/802.3 network statistics (LAN Bridges and DECbridges)

 o  Display Ethernet/802.3 network utilization statistics (LAN Bridge
    200 and DECbridge 500 and 600 Series)

 o  Ability to display FDDI stations that adhere to the ANSI X3T9.5 Sta-
    tion Management (SMT) standard

 The general characteristics of POLYCENTER Extended LAN Manager FM in-
 clude:

 o  FDDI ring map autotopology. For this function to work, there must
    be an RBMS device on the FDDI Ring. The RBMS devices include: DECbridge
    500 series, DECbridge 600 series, or a DECconcentrator 500.

                                 18

 

 o  Bridge Spanning tree autotopology supporting IEEE 802.1d spanning
    tree and Digital's LAN Bridge 100 spanning tree protocols on the
    LAN Bridge and DECbridge family of products

 o  Provides autoregistration for LAN Bridges, DECbridges, DECconcen-
    trators, and other FDDI devices that adhere to the ANSI X3T9.5 FDDI
    Station Management (SMT) standard

 Terminal Server Access Module Option

 The POLYCENTER Terminal Server Access Module (TSAM) is an OpenVMS lay-
 ered product that provides remote management access to Digital ter-
 minal servers within the POLYCENTER Network Manager 200/400 environ-
 ment. The POLYCENTER Terminal Server AM allows POLYCENTER Network Man-
 ager 200/400 users to remotely configure and monitor Digital termi-
 nal servers anywhere in the extended Local Area Network (LAN) from a
 system running POLYCENTER Network Manager 200/400.

 POLYCENTER Terminal Server AM V1.4 is the release of software that pro-
 vides migration of the Terminal Server Manager (TSM) capabilities to
 the POLYCENTER Network Manager 200/400 environment.

 The general characteristics of POLYCENTER Terminal Server AM include:

 o  Remote management capabilities for Digital Terminal Servers

 o  Allows for observation, monitoring, and controlling of Digital Ter-
    minal Servers on Local Area Networks

 o  Ability to display and modify devices, links, physical ports, op-
    erational and permanent, LAT/Telnet database characteristics

 o  Customize site specific alarms for the devices stored in the MIR
    (Management Information Repository) for faults, errors, and changed
    information

 o  Simultaneous management access by multiple users

 o  On-line Help facility

 o  Similar display formats for all manageable terminal servers

                                 19

 

 Management Information Repository (MIR)

 POLYCENTER Terminal Server AM (TSAM; also called DECmcc TSAM) provides
 a Management Information Repository (MIR) that contains the name, Eth-
 ernet address, terminal server type, and other fields for each server
 to be managed. Through the TSAM MIR, the user needs to refer only to
 the name of the server in order to gain access.

 DECnet Database Modification

 POLYCENTER Terminal Server AM can automatically update the DECnet man-
 agement directory. Users do not need to separately use a DECnet AM to
 update DECnet information. The Terminal Server AM will access the DEC-
 net database itself to do the appropriate modifications.

 Fault Management

 Troubleshooting within the terminal server network is enhanced by TSAM
 providing the central ability to read traffic status and counters in
 addition to error status and counters. With the "PASTHRU" utility, the
 user can also connect directly to the server, allowing isolation of
 problems between POLYCENTER Terminal Server AM and the server.

 LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM) OpenVMS Point Product

 LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM) OpenVMS is the software portion of a fully
 distributed monitor that can support the capture and presentation of
 traffic data from an extended Ethernet. A LAN Bridge 100 or LAN Bridge
 150, downline loaded with monitoring software, is attached to the Eth-
 ernet cable and transmits information to an OpenVMS layered applica-
 tion software program located on any VAX in the extended LAN. Multi-
 ple users, from different nodes on the extended Ethernet, may access
 the traffic data. LAN Traffic Monitor also works with Chipcom's Broad-
 band Bridges called Ethermodem III Bridges.

 LAN Bridge hardware can run either as a LAN Traffic Monitor or as a
 LAN Bridge, i.e., the primary building block of the Extended LAN ar-
 chitecture. An Extended LAN is a collection of LANs that are inter-
 connected and logically appear as one large Local Area Network.

                                 20

 

 Note that when a bridge is used as a monitoring device or listener,
 it does not function as a bridge. Users can remotely switch a bridge
 between monitoring and standard bridge modes using Digital's POLYCEN-
 TER ELM AM software.

 With the LAN Bridge designed to work at full Ethernet speed, the LAN
 Traffic Monitor can provide real-time data on Ethernet LAN through-
 put and utilization, allowing a customer to actively monitor their Eth-
 ernet usage. The ability to collect data on any protocol type (i.e.,
 LAT, 802.3, DECnet, TCP/IP, etc.) on the Ethernet is also provided.

 LAN Traffic Monitor contains both the LTM Listener software (which counts
 and classifies Ethernet traffic using a LAN Bridge as a monitoring de-
 vice) and the LTM User Interface (which collects and displays data re-
 ceived from the LTM Listener).

 The LTM Listener periodically reports traffic statistics to the LTM
 User Interface located on a VAX host. The LTM User Interface receives
 unsolicited Ethernet datagrams generated by the LTM Listener, and through
 the menu structure, the user can also ask the LTM Listener for addi-
 tional data not found in the unsolicited messages. A single LTM host
 can be used in conjunction with multiple LTM listeners.

 The LTM User Interface performs the necessary data reduction and presents
 the statistics in logical groupings. Summary displays, which are pre-
 sented in tabular format, include Network Traffic, Top Ten Talkers,
 and Throughput and Utilization. LTM also displays Lists of Nodes, Mul-
 ticast Addresses, Protocols Used by Nodes, Node Traffic by Protocol
 Type, Multicast Traffic by Protocol Type, and Protocol Type Traffic.

 In addition, LAN utilization based on the most recent traffic data re-
 ceived from the LTM Listener may be displayed graphically in inter-
 vals of one, four, eight, twelve, twenty-four, or forty-eight hours.







                                 21

 

 NMCC/VAX ETHERnim Point Product

 NMCC/VAX ETHERnim is a network management application that provides
 the network manager with a tool to gather information about Ethernet
 nodes, verify reachability of nodes, provide a graphical display of
 local area network topology and monitor Ethernet traffic.

 NMCC/VAX ETHERnim consists of two categories of software: one must be
 installed on an OpenVMS system set up as the Host, and the other can
 be optionally installed on Target systems running OpenVMS. In this con-
 text, the Host is defined as the node where the NMCC/VAX ETHERnim ap-
 plication runs, while the Target systems are those DECnet nodes on the
 Ethernet segments which are being tested at the User (task) level. The
 optional software installed on the Target system is referred to as the
 Remote Files.

 The Host software requires Phase IV DECnet software on an OpenVMS sys-
 tem. When this software has been installed, the network manager has
 the ability to:

 o  Build a permanent database containing basic information about each
    node directly connected to the Ethernet local area network through
    user commands and automatic procedures.

 o  Manually construct and maintain a topological view of the network,
    including transparent network devices (e.g., DEMPR, DELNI, DEREP).

 o  Test the Ethernet network to help isolate and identify problems.

 o  Test the communications path to each node up to the DNA applica-
    tion layer by performing a loopback test to a specified user ac-
    count. This feature is available only for OpenVMS Target systems.

 o  Monitor the network to determine which nodes are the top talkers
    and which nodes are the top listeners; sort/display traffic by pro-
    tocol type or multicast address; focus on traffic to/from a spec-
    ified node.



                                 22

 

 o  Perform information access to properly configured DECnet nodes on
    the Ethernet to determine the remote nodes's system type, hardware
    configuration, and software configuration.

 Note: Under high Ethernet utilization (above 20%, with a combination
 of high LAN load and a low power VAX system), the ETHERnim Monitor func-
 tion may cause performance problems on the host running ETHERnim. This
 may affect time-sensitive network applications which are connected to
 the host running ETHERnim.

 Terminal Server Manager (TSM) Point Product

 Terminal Server Manager (TSM) OpenVMS software allows suitably priv-
 ileged users on a VAX host to control and observe terminal servers any-
 where in the extended local area network. TSM provides centralization
 and increased flexibility in configuring, monitoring, and controlling
 Digital Equipment Corporation's family of terminal servers.

 TSM's enhancements provide management support for Digital's newest ad-
 dition of Terminal Servers - DECserver 700, DECserver 90L+, DECserver
 90TL, as well as upgraded support for DECserver 90L. It also includes
 an automated database conversion from TSM V2.1-2. The new TRIGGER SERVER
 command enables a reboot to an unattended or remote terminal server.

 TSM Features

 Telnet Functionality

 TSM supports a new set of server commands to provide management of the
 Telnet characteristics of a terminal server.

 Management Directory

 TSM provides a directory that contains the name, Ethernet address, ter-
 minal server type, and other fields for each server to be managed. Through
 the TSM directory, the user needs to refer only to the name of the server
 to gain access.

 Server Selection

                                 23

 

 TSM provides a USE command to allow selection of the server or servers
 to be managed, or the directory to be referenced. TSM allows the user
 to manage, from one server, all of the servers in the directory at a
 time. The user can choose to manage a partition of servers, all servers
 of a specified type, or all servers matching a wildcarded server or
 partition specification.

 Volatile Characteristics

 TSM manages the volatile characteristics for all terminal server types.

 Terminal Server Trigger

 Capability via TSM that will cause the server to load with whatever
 server software is specified in NVRAM.

 Database Manipulation

 TSM can access and manipulate the database associated with each server
 within its jurisdiction, including their characteristics and param-
 eters.

 DECnet Database Modification

 TSM automatically updates the DECnet database for servers to match the
 DECnet related information in the management directory. It is not nec-
 essary for users to employ a separate DSVCONFIG or TSVNCP configura-
 tion program.

 3270 Option Software

 TSM provides support for the 3270 Option Software for the CXM04 line
 card. This line card provides the capability to connect the 3270 class
 of terminals to systems on Ethernet.

 Keyboard Mapping

 This functionality enables the terminal server manager to customize
 3270 keyboard tables supplied with the 3270 Option Software by chang-
 ing the way individual 3270 keyboard keys are mapped to Digital's VT220
 keys.

                                 24

 

 DCL Commands

 TSM commands may be issued as DCL commands; the syntax follows DCL con-
 ventions.

 Command Files

 Command files may be maintained outside TSM (e.g., by use of an Open-
 VMS VAX editor). This command file support allows values of charac-
 teristics to be stored on the host, effectively creating a copy of the
 permanent database that may be used to configure new servers. Server
 maintenance is also enhanced by allowing the terminal server to be eas-
 ily box swapped and parameters reset. Up to eight parameters may be
 passed to TSM command files. Additionally, command files may operate
 on a single server, on a logical group (a partition) of servers, or
 on all servers.

 Fault Management

 Troubleshooting within the terminal server network is enhanced by TSM
 providing the ability, centrally, to read traffic status and counters
 in addition to error status and counters. With the "PASTHRU" command,
 the user can also connect directly to the server without using TSM,
 allowing isolation of problems between TSM and the server.

 A simple connectivity test to a specific server or all servers listed
 in the directory is provided with an informational message displayed
 for each server not responding. TSM allows the user to check period-
 ically for non-functioning terminal servers. This function might be
 performed from within a batch job, to run without user involvement,
 but informing the appropriate personnel if a server connectivity prob-
 lem is detected.

 Via the TEST DELAY command, users can measure timing delays associ-
 ated with data transmission to and from servers.

 The TEST CONNECTION command tests the ability to submit a print job
 to a server port.


                                 25

 

 Terminal Server Manager supports the following models of communica-
 tions software:

 o  Ethernet Terminal Server for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 90L (ROM-resident terminal server software)

 o  DECserver 90L+ (ROM-resident terminal server software)

 o  DECserver 90M for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 90TL for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 100 for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 200 for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 250 for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 300 for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 500 for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 700 for OpenVMS

 o  DECserver 900 for OpenVMS

 o  MUXserver 90 Remote Terminal Server for OpenVMS

 o  MUXserver 100 Remote Terminal Server for OpenVMS

 o  MUXserver 300 Remote Terminal Server for OpenVMS

 o  MUXserver 320 Remote Terminal Server for OpenVMS

 o  MUXserver 380 Remote Terminal Server for OpenVMS

 Network Troubleshooting Guide

 The Network Troubleshooting Guide provides an on-line, systematic ap-
 proach to solving any network problem. Available through the Motif Bookreader
 application, its text can be displayed in a window within a POLYCEN-
 TER Network Manager 400 environment. The Network Troubleshooting Guide
 gives specific step-by-step instructions for solving some of the most
 common network problems that occur on DECnet/OSI for OpenVMS VAX, DEC-
 net/OSI for ULTRIX, Ethernet, and TCP/IP networks.

                                 26

 

 The Network Troubleshooting Guide incorporates information from var-
 ious sources into a single manual, minimizing the documentation re-
 quired for solving network problems.

 The Network Troubleshooting Guide covers:

 o  Background information on DECnet and TCP/IP networks

 o  How to use a standard troubleshooting methodology to solve any net-
    work problem

 o  How to use network tools such as Network Control Program (NCP), NMCC
    /VAX ETHERnim, and LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM)

 o  How to use ULTRIX utilities such as netstat, ping, and uerf

 o  How to use log files and counters to gather information for prob-
    lem solving

 o  How to trace a network path to isolate the source of a problem

 o  How and when to perform loopback tests

 o  In explicit step-by-step instructions, how to solve nearly 30 of
    the most common network problems, including:

    -  Network partner exited (DECnet networks)

    -  Permission denied (TCP/IP networks)

    -  LAT Print Queue Problems (Ethernet networks)









                                 27

 

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 LANbridge 100/150 for LTM Listener is required.

 Processors Supported

 OpenVMS-based Processors:

 VAX:      VAXft Model 410,
           VAXft Model 610,
           VAXft Model 612

           VAX 4000 Model 300,
           VAX 4000 Model 400,
           VAX 4000 Model 500,
           VAX 4000 Model 600
           VAX 4000 Model 700

           VAX 6000 Model 400 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 500 Series,
           VAX 6000 Model 600 Series

           VAX 7000 Model 600 Series

           VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8600,
           VAX 8650, VAX 8700, VAX 8800,
           VAX 8810, VAX 8820, VAX 8830,
           VAX 8840

           VAX 9000 Model 110,
           VAX 9000 Model 210,
           VAX 9000 Model 300 Series,
           VAX 9000 Model 400 Series







                                 28

 


 MicroVAX: MicroVAX 3300, MicroVAX 3400,
           MicroVAX 3500, MicroVAX 3600,
           MicroVAX 3800, MicroVAX 3900

 VAXstation:VAXstation 3200, VAXstation 3500,
           VAXstation 3520, VAXstation 3540

           VAXstation 4000 Model 60,
           VAXstation 4000 Model 90,
           VAXstation 4000 Model 90A

 VAXserver: VAXserver 3400, VAXserver 3500, VAXserver 3600,
           VAXserver 3602, VAXserver 3800, VAXserver 3900

           VAXserver 4000 Model 300,
           VAXserver 4000 Model 500
           VAXserver 4000 Model 600
           VAXserver 4000 Model 700

           VAXserver 6000 Model 410,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 420,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 510,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 520,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 610,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 620,
           VAXserver 6000 Model 630

 Processors Not Supported

 MicroVAX I, MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000

 MicroVAX 3100 Model 10/10E,
 MicroVAX 3100 Model 20/20E
 MicroVAX 3100 Model 30
 MicroVAX 3100 Model 40
 MicroVAX 3100 Model 80
 MicroVAX 3100 Model 90


                                 29

 

 VAXstation I, VAXstation II, VAXstation 2000

 VAXstation 3100 Model 30,
 VAXstation 3100 Model 38,
 VAXstation 3100 Model 40,
 VAXstation 3100 Model 48,
 VAXstation 3100 Model 76

 VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730, VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAX-11/782, VAX-11/785

 VAX 4000 Model 60, VAX 4000 Model 90,
 VAX 4000 Model 100, VAX 4000 Model 200,
 VAX 4000 VLC

 VAX 6000 Model 200 Series,
 VAX 6000 Model 300 Series

 VAX 8300, VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX 8530, VAX 8550,

 VAX 10000 Model 600 Series,

 VAXstation 8000

 VAXft Model 110, VAXft Model 310

 VAXserver 6000 Model 210,
 VAXserver 6000 Model 220,
 VAXserver 6000 310,
 VAXserver 6000 Model 320

 VAXserver 3100, VAXserver 3300, VAXserver 4000 Model 200

 MINIMUM RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION *

 Processor Capac-  6 SPECmark
 ity:
 Memory Required:  64 MB
 Disk:             RZ56 (655 Mbytes)

 Other Hardware Required:

                                 30

 

 A Motif[R] supported color monitor is required; otherwise, a VT24x,
 VT330, or a VT340 terminal is required for systems with no Motif in-
 terface.

 To run the LTM Listener, one of the following is required:

 o  LAN Bridge 100 with ROM ECO Revision E or later

 o  LAN Bridge 150

 o  Chipcom Ethermodem,[TM] III Bridge (option numbers 8318BS (18Mhz)
    or 8312BS (12 Mgz))

 o  Specific network environments may require larger configurations.

 Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1):

 For OpenVMS:

 Disk space        210,000 blocks
 required for
 installation:

 These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. These
 sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
 system environment, configuration, and software options.

 OPTIONAL HARDWARE

 In large network configurations where performance of the network man-
 agement system is critical, it is recommended that additional memory
 and additional disk space be utilized.

 Additional LAN Bridge units can be configured with LTM Listener soft-
 ware after LAN Traffic Monitor OpenVMS has been installed. By creat-
 ing a separate OpenVMS process (or subprocess), a single user account
 on the VAX host may simultaneously be collecting data from multiple
 LTM Listener units. The LTM Listener can be started in either private
 mode (sending to a single destination Ethernet address) or shared mode
 (multicasting its traffic reports).

                                 31

 

 Also, while multiple hosts may simultaneously view a single LTM Lis-
 tener unit (thereby requiring additional licenses of the software be
 purchased for each additional processor), multiple accounts on a sin-
 gle host may NOT simultaneously view a single LTM Listener unit.

 CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

 This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid
 and licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions. The HARD-
 WARE REQUIREMENTS section details any special hardware required by this
 product.

 *  V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXclus-
    ter Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Eth-
    ernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

 IMPORTANT INTEROPERABILITY INFORMATION

 Interoperability problems may occur when more than one product con-
 taining DECthreads is installed on a system. This occurs because some
 products overwrite the system version of DECthreads. If a product with
 a different version of DECthreads is installed after POLYCENTER Frame-
 work, problems may occur.

 POLYCENTER Framework V1.4 is linked with DECthreads V1.0-422. Later
 versions of DECthreads have a backwards compatible API. Consequently,
 no problem should result from having a more recent version of DECthreads
 on the system.

 Only SSB versions of DECthreads are supported.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (no DECwindows Motif[R] interface):

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System V5.5-2 to V6.1




                                 32

 

 For Workstations Running DECwindows Motif:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System V5.5-2 to V6.1

 o  DECwindows Motif V1.1 for OpenVMS V5.5-2
    DECwindows Motif V1.2 for OpenVMS V6.1

 Layered Products:

 o  VAX Rdb/OpenVMS Runtime V4.1, 4.2 must be installed on the target
    system to which data is exported using the Export FM

 o  CDD Repository V4.2, VAX DATATRIEVE V6.0, and DECgraph V1.5 are re-
    quired to access and print the sample Performance Analyzer FM re-
    ports

 This product may run in either of the following ways:

 o  Stand-Alone Execution - Running the X11 display server and the client
    application on the same machine.

 o  Remote Execution - Running the X11 display server and the client
    application on different machines.

 OpenVMS Motif is part of the OpenVMS VAX Operating System but must be
 installed separately. Installation of OpenVMS Motif gives users the
 option to install any or all of the following three components:

 o  OpenVMS Motif Compute Server (Base kit; includes runtime support)

 o  OpenVMS Motif Device Support

 o  OpenVMS Motif Programming Support

 For remote execution, the following Motif components must be installed
 on the same machine:

 Server Machine:

 o  OpenVMS Motif Compute Server

 o  OpenVMS Motif Device Support

                                 33

 

 Client Machine:

 o  OpenVMS Motif Compute Server

 o  OpenVMS Motif Device Support

 OpenVMS Tailoring

 For OpenVMS systems, the following OpenVMS classes are required for
 full functionality of this layered product:

 o  OpenVMS Required Saveset

 o  Network Support

 o  Programming Support

 o  Utilities

 For more information about OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity (LMF).

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the OpenVMS VAX Operating System documentation.

                                 34

 

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 o  DECnet/OSI for OpenVMS VAX V5.5 - V6.1: if the Digital Distributed
    Name Service for VAX (VAXdns) is used, or DECnet Phase IV or DEC-
    net/OSI nodes are to be managed

 o  A Digital Distributed Name Service (DECdns) Server must be installed
    somewhere on the network to implement a global naming repository
    in place of the POLYCENTER Framework local system naming reposi-
    tory

 o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS (UCX) V2.x - V3.1 to support SNMP
    access

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.

 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 This product is available as part of the OpenVMS VAX and ULTRIX Lay-
 ered Product Consolidated Distributions on CD-ROM.

 This product is also available on TK50 Streaming Tape

 The software documentation for this product is available as part of
 the OpenVMS VAX Online Documentation Library on CD-ROM.








                                 35

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses: QL-YFVA9-AA
 Software Media: QA-YFVAA-H5
 Software Documentation: QA-YFVAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YFVA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
 local Digital sales office for the most up-to-date information.

 INSTALLATION

 Digital recommends that all customers purchase Digital's installation
 and consulting services. These services provide for the planning, im-
 plementation (product setup and startup) and customer orientation on
 the product by an experienced Digital Software Specialist. Customers
 should consult their local Digital offices to obtain information on
 installation and start-up services available in their locations.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 Network Management Services are also available. These include, but are
 not restricted to, the following:

 o  Network Management Operations Services

 o  Network Management Planning and Design Services

 o  Network Management Implementation Services

 o  Network Management Training

 For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Office.

                                 36

 

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
 local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

 [R] Chipcom is a registered trademark of the Chipcom Corporation.

 [R] Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [R] UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories.

 [TM]Ethermodem is a trademark of the Chipcom Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS, DDCMP, DECbridge, DEC-
    graph, DECmcc, DECnet, DECserver, POLYCENTER, DELNI, DEMPR,
    Digital, LAT, METROWAVE, MicroVAX, MUXserver, OpenVMS, Rdb/VMS,
    RZ, TK, VAX, VAXcluster, VAX ETHERnim, VAXserver, VAXstation,
    VMS, VT, VT220, VT330, and VT340 are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.

  1995 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.














                                 37
