
                              DIGITAL

Software
Product
Description

______________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  RMS Journaling for OpenVMS, Version 7.1    SPD 27.58.12

Note: This is the Software Product Description (SPD) for the following
two products:

o  RMS Journaling for OpenVMS VAX

o  RMS Journaling for OpenVMS Alpha

Except where specifically noted, the features described in this SPD
apply to both products. The license and part number information is 
architecture specific. Please refer to the Ordering Information section
of this SPD for further details.

DESCRIPTION

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS helps maintain the data integrity of 
OpenVMS RMS files and protects this file data from becoming lost or 
inconsistent due to various failure scenarios.

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS provides the following three methods of 
journaling:

o  After-image (AI) journaling allows you to redo a series of 
   modifications to a file. This type of journaling helps recover lost or
   corrupted files. After-image recovery restores the contents of the
   file from the point of the latest backup copy of that file.

o  Before-image (BI) journaling allows you to undo a series of 
   modifications to a file. This type of journaling a returns the file
   to to a previous known state. This is useful when a file is updated
   with erroneous data.

                                                      November 1996

 

o  Recovery unit (RU) journaling helps maintain transaction integrity,
   where a transaction consists of a group of related operations that
   must be atomic. That is, either all of the operations complete in
   their entirety, or none of the operations complete. This type of
   journaling helps prevent data from becoming inconsistent due to the
   incomplete execution of a transaction.

Journaling is applied on a file-by-file basis. A file can be marked
for AI, BI, or RU journaling, or any combination of these methods. Within
a given application, any combination of journaling methods can be used.

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS stores the information necessary for data
recovery in files known as journals. Multiple files can use the same
journal.

RMS Recovery Unit Journaling and DECdtm Transactions

Transactions are defined and managed using the DECdtm transaction 
services available within OpenVMS. An RMS recovery unit is a set of RMS
record operations, performed in the context of a single process, that
is part of a transaction coordinated by DECdtm services. RMS recovery
units are started automatically by RMS, and RMS recovery units are
committed or aborted along with the transaction of which they are a
part.

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS functions as a resource manager in trans-
actions that use DECdtm services. DECdtm services are implemented 
using a two-phase commit protocol as described in the OpenVMS Operating
System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx). RU journaling
supports both a one-phase and a two-phase commit protocol.

Remote RMS files (files accessed via the DAP/FAL protocol) that are
marked for RU journaling can be modified within a transaction and will
be included in the atomic unit of work defined by the transaction. Also,
the modifications made to RMS files marked for RU journaling can be
combined with modifications made using any resource manager that 
supports DECdtm services into a single atomic transaction.


                                 2

 

The Recovery Unit Facility (RUF) services have been superseded by DECdtm
services. However, the RUF services are still supported and are trans-
parently emulated using the DECdtm services. Existing applications that
were written using the RUF services continue to work without recom-
pilation or relinking.

Supported File Organizations

All RMS file organizations are supported by RMS Journaling for 
OpenVMS. Any sequential, relative, or Prolog 3 indexed file can use 
journaling. However, the following restrictions apply:

o  Prolog 1 and Prolog 2 indexed files are not supported by RMS 
   Journaling for OpenVMS.

o  Sequential files have a maximum record size of 32,667 bytes.

o  Files marked for RU journaling cannot be modified with the DCL 
   command WRITE.

o  Stream files cannot be modified in shared mode in a recovery unit.

o  Sequential files having VFC record format do not allow shared 
   access for RU journaling.

When using RU journaling with shared, fixed-length sequential files,
any abort processing overwrites records added to the recovery unit with
zero bytes (null characters). This occurs because the record cannot
be deleted from the file.

All files that are marked for journaling must reside on Files-11 
On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS-2) disks. All journals must also reside on 
ODS-2disks. Digital recommends that journals used for AI journaling 
reside on a disk volume that is different from the disk volume where the
data file that uses the journal resides. Journaling across a network
or to a tape device is not supported.




                                 3



Marking Files for Journaling
 

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS is enabled on a file-by-file basis. Files
marked for AI, BI, and RU journaling are enabled by using qualifiers
to the DCL command SET FILE. You can use any combination of qualifiers
with a particular SET FILE command or series of SET FILE commands.

The most recent SET FILE command for a given file overrides all 
previous SET FILE commands for that file.

Successful marking of an RMS file for journaling requires exclusive
access to the file specified in the SET FILE command. Exclusive 
access means the RMS file being marked for journaling must be closed;
that is, application programs accessing that file must be shut down
before the file can be successfully marked for journaling.

No modifications to application programs are required for long-term
(AI or BI) journaling. Once a file has been marked for long-term 
journaling, journal information will be written to the journal each time
the file is modified. You must enter the SET FILE command to mark the
file for journaling before opening the file. All modifications to the
file are recorded in the journal until the file is unmarked for 
journaling.

Modifications to application programs are required for RU journaling.
At a minimum, the program must specify the start and end of a recovery
ery unit, using DECdtm transactions or RU system services. When a file
is marked for recovery unit journaling, all modifications to that file
made by the application must be within a recovery unit.

Journal File Maintenance

AI and BI journals require periodic maintenance. Because journals can
expand indefinitely, and a journal must reside on a single volume set,
occasional remarking of a file for journaling and all of the associated
operations is required. This implies that applications accessing
RMS files marked for AI or BI journaling, or both, must be stopped
periodically for journal maintenance operations.



                                 4



Recovering Data - Long-Term Journaling 

In the case of long-term (either AI or BI) journaling, data recovery
is done using the RMS Recovery utility. Recovery is on a file-by-file
basis and must be explicitly requested; it is not done automatically.
The RMS Recovery utility is invoked at DCL level to either roll 
forward or roll back changes to the file. The Recovery utility requires
exclusive access to the file being recovered. Changes can be rolled
forward or rolled backward until a time specified by the user.

Recovering Data - Recovery Unit Journaling

No user intervention is required to roll back a recovery unit that is
incomplete. The rollback of an incomplete transaction is started and
completed automatically the next time a user attempts to access the
file.

Interaction with the Backup Utility

To recover data using AI journaling, a backup copy of the file must
be available. This copy must be made with the Backup utility (BACKUP);
a copy of the file made with the COPY or CONVERT command cannot be used.
The backup copy of the file must be made after you enter the SET FILE
/AI_JOURNAL command but before opening the file for update. BACKUP 
requires exclusive access to files being backed up. No user or appli-
cation program can access the file until the backup is finished.

Digital recommends the use of BACKUP/RECORD. If the file is then rolled
forward, the modifications that have been made since the most recent
backup are applied.

If a backup copy of a file is rolled forward with the RMS Recovery utility,
you must remark the file for AI journaling with the SET FILE/AI_JOURNAL
command. You must make a backup copy of that file after marking it
for AI journaling and before application updates are allowed.

A backup copy of the file must be remarked for journaling if it is to
be used in place of the original file.



                                 5



Interaction with Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS 

Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS can be used in conjunction with AI 
journaling. AI journaling helps recover data in the following cases 
not addressed by Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS:

o  Mistaken deletion of a file by a system user or
   operator

o  Corruption of the file system pointers

o  RMS file corruption due to a software error or incomplete bucket
   write operations to an indexed file

Failures Not Addressed by RMS Recovery Unit Journaling

RU journaling alone does not provide recovery when a multiblock bucket
write operation to an indexed file is in progress, leaving the bucket
in the indexed file in a corrupt state. Use AI journaling in conjunction
with RU journaling to recover from the following failed multiblock
bucket write operations:

o  Failure of the VAX or Alpha host during a multiblock write operation,
   such as a system failure, halt, power failure, or system shutdown.

o  Permanent loss of path to the disk during a multiblock write 
   operation.

o  Cancellation of a multiblock write operation in progress. This 
   operation is possible only with disks that use the DUDRIVER or that
   access a disk drive through the MSCP server. Other disk drives 
   ignore the cancellation of I/O and are not affected.



                                 6

 
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Refer to the OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
25.01.xx) for hardware requirements and supported processors.

OpenVMS CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported without restrictions when 
installed on any valid and licensed OpenVMS Cluster* configuration. The
Hardware Requirements section of this product's SPD and the OpenVMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) list any
special hardware required by this product.

*OpenVMS Cluster configurations are fully described in the OpenVMS
 Cluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) and include CI,
 Ethernet, DSSI, FDDI, and MI configurations.

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS Version 7.1 is an OpenVMS System Integrated
Product that requires OpenVMS Version 7.1.

For additional information, refer to the OpenVMS Operating System 
Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

OpenVMS Tailoring

For OpenVMS Version 7.1, the following OpenVMS class is required for
full features of this System Integrated Product:

   OpenVMS Required Save Set

For more information about OpenVMS classes and tailoring, refer to the
OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).






                                 7

 
GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version
of this product may be different from the requirements for the 
current version.

DISTRIBUTION AND INSTALLATION

RMS Journaling for OpenVMS Version 7.1 is a System Integrated Product
that is distributed and installed with the OpenVMS operating system
Version 7.1.

ORDERING INFORMATION

For RMS Journaling on OpenVMS VAX:

Software Licenses: QL-VDVA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VDVAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VDVA*-**

For RMS Journaling on OpenVMS Alpha:

Software Licenses: QL-0VHA*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VDVAA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-0VHA*-**

*Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available 
 licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more 
information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
local Digital office.




                                 8


 
License Management Facility

This System Integrated Product supports the OpenVMS License Management
Facility.

License units for this product are sold on a capacity (per CPU) 
basis.

For more information about the License Management Facility, refer to
the OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
or the OpenVMS License Management Utility Manual in the OpenVMS 
documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more 
information, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
Addendum of this SPD.

The previous information is valid at the time of this release. Please
contact your local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

©1996 Digital Equipment Corporation.
  All rights reserved.

[TM] The DIGITAL logo, CI, DECdtm, Digital, MI, MSCP, OpenVMS,
     OpenVMS Cluster, OpenVMS RMS, OpenVMS Volume Shadowing, VAX,
     are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.



                                 9
