 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ___________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver    SPD 41.55.02
                         Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version
                         2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

          Description

          StorageWorks[R] Desktop Backup/Archiver provides high performance, easy-
          to-use, over-the-network backup and restore services for IBM[R]-compatible
          personal computers and Macintosh[R] systems to OpenVMS VAX and Alpha
          servers. The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver product uses a client
          /server model to provide unattended backup of multiple client systems
          to one or more servers. It uses DECnet services provided by Digital
          Equipment Corporation's PATHWORKS product family. It may also use Ap-
          pleTalk[R] services provided by Apple Computer.

          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver allows OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS Al-
          pha systems running PATHWORKS to act as a backup server to networked
          clients running PATHWORKS for DOS, PATHWORKS for Macintosh, or run-
          ning AppleTalk networking software. The server is an OpenVMS VAX or
          Alpha platform with any directly attached tape and/or disk drive sup-
          ported by the OpenVMS operating system. For the list of supported tape
          and disk drives, refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software
          Product Description (SPD 25.01) or the OpenVMS Alpha Operating Sys-
          tem Software Product Description (SPD 41.87). Multiple clients on the
          network may be backed up by a single Desktop Backup/Archiver server
          system.

          The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver server initiates client back-
          ups, writes and reads data to/from OpenVMS server-connected tape drives
          or disk drives, maintains backup schedules, and provides media man-
          agement facilities.



                                        DIGITAL                  October 1995

                                                                  AE-PPKNH-TH

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

          The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver server provides the follow-
          ing function for client systems:

          o  Server-system backup process management

          o  Backup job scheduling

          o  Security

          o  The server side of backup/restore services

          The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver client software provides client
          backup functionality including:

          o  Reading the local disk(s)

          o  Sending files to the StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver server.

          o  Receiving files provided by the StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver
             server to be restored to the local disk(s)

          o  A graphical management console for centralized control of backup
             and restore operations and for local user control of backup and re-
             store operations.

          Clients are IBM or IBM-compatible PCs or Macintosh systems that have
          local disks with backup requirements. The backup client process may
          be initiated by the desktop system user or automatically by the soft-
          ware. A small portion of the client software is always present in the
          desktop system memory. This software listens to the network and starts
          the backup client program when requested by the server. Backups and
          restores can be initiated via the user interface. Microsoft Windows
          users and Macintosh users may run the client software in the background
          while still using the desktop system for other operations.

          Server Features

          o  Network-based graphical user interface

          o  Command line user interface for creating batch controlled processes

          o  Supports a wide variety of VAX, Alpha, and HSC-connected tape drives

          o  Allows backups to be directed to either tape or disk

                                           2

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

          o  Backup scheduling capabilities, with automatic rescheduling

          o  Backup library to record the location of data on tape volumes

          o  Event logger to record events such as completed backups and errors

          o  A security module to maintain lists of clients, users, passwords,
             and backup administrators, enhancing data privacy and security

          Client Features

          o  Network-based graphical user interface

          o  "Set once and forget" functionality for automatic networked-PC backup

          o  Client-based backup scheduling

          o  Access to Server History database to facilitate file restoration

          o  Full and incremental backup

          o  Files and directories can be specifically included or excluded from
             the backup process

          o  Ability to restore disks which have accidentally been erased or have
             been replaced

          Network Transports

          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver supports access to OpenVMS servers
          via DECnet. Macintosh systems can use either DECnet or AppleTalk trans-
          ports.

          OpenVMS VAX Server Software Requirements

          o  OpenVMS VAX operating system V5.5-2 or higher

          o  DECnet-VAX V5.2 - V5.5

          o  PATHWORKS for VMS Macintosh V1.3 (only required for Macintosh clients
             using AppleTalk transport)

          o  VMS DECwindows Motif[R] V1.1 or DECwindows [R] Motif for OpenVMS
             VAX V1.1 or higher

                                           3

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

          o  Oracle Rdb (formerly VAX Rdb/VMS) (Runtime Only or Development) V4.0-3
             - V6.0

          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver will run with Multiversion Rdb
          if one of the above supported versions of Rdb is run concurrently.

          OpenVMS Alpha Server Software Requirements


          o  OpenVMS Alpha Operating System V6.1 or higher

          o  DECnet for OpenVMS Alpha V6.0 or higher

          o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha V1.1 or higher

          o  Oracle Rdb (formerly DEC Rdb for OpenVMS Alpha (Runtime Only or De-
             velopment) V5.1 - V6.0

          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver will run with Multiversion Rdb
          if one of the above supported versions of Rdb is run concurrently.

          MS-DOS Client Software Requirements

          o  MS-DOS V5.0 or higher

          o  PATHWORKS V5.0 for DOS

          Microsoft Windows Client Software Requirements

          o  Microsoft Windows V3.1 or higher

          o  PATHWORKS V5.0 for DOS

          Windows for Workgroups Client Software Requirements

          o  Microsoft Windows for Workgroups V3.11 or higher

          o  PATHWORKS V5.0 for DOS



                                           4

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

          Macintosh Client Software Requirements

          o  Macintosh operating system 6.0.7, 6.0.8, 7.0, 7.0 tuneup 1.1.1, 7.0.1,
             7.0.1 tuneup 1.1.1, 7.0.1P, 7.1, 7.1P.

          o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh (only required if DECnet transport is de-
             sired)

          o  Macintosh Communications Toolbox (only required if DECnet trans-
             port is desired for System 6.x)

          o  ASDP Init (only required if AppleTalk transport is desired for Sys-
             tem 6.x)

          Total Attached Client Upper Limit

          o  The architecture of DTB has an upper limit to the number of clients
             that can be managed with a single StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver
             management server.

          o  The upper limit is constrained by the number of client names that
             can be passed in a 4K byte network packet.

          o  The limit is different for DOS and Macintosh clients and can be de-
             termined by the following:

             o  The maximum number of DECNET clients that can be attached to one
                server is 569, if there are no Appletalk clients attached.

             o  The maximum number of Appletalk clients that can be attached to
                one server is 60, if there are no DECNET clients attached. Note
                that if less than 65 character node names are used, it is pos-
                sible to run more than 60 Appletalk clients, with no DECNET clients
                attached.







                                           5

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

             o  When both DECNET and Appletalk clients are attached to the same
                server node, use the following formula to determine the maxi-
                mum number of clients that can be attached to a single server
                node:

                o  (#DECNET Clients *7)+(#APPLETALK Clients *66) is Less Than
                   or Equal To 3988

          Server Hardware Requirements

          Server Disk Space Requirements:

          Disk space required for      20,000 blocks
          VAX installation:

          Disk space required for      15,000 blocks
          VAX use (permanent):

          Disk space required for      16,000 blocks
          Alpha installation:

          Disk space required for      15,000 blocks
          Alpha use (permanent):

          The above are storage requirements for disk space on the server sys-
          tem disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending
          on the user's system environment, configuration, and software options.

          Optional Server Hardware

          Any directly attached OpenVMS supported tape drive. For the specific
          equipment list, refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Prod-
          uct Description (SPD 25.01) or the OpenVMS Alpha Operating System Soft-
          ware Product Description (SPD 41.87).

          Hardware Not Supported

          Tape drives attached to the Infoserver family of products are not sup-
          ported by StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Server.


                                           6

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version
          2.1;

          Cluster Environment for Server

          This layered product is supported when installed on any valid and li-
          censed VAXcluster configuration without restrictions.

          o  V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXclus-
             ter Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Eth-
             ernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

          MS-DOS, Microsoft Windows, Windows for Workgroups Client Hardware
          Requirements

          Refer to the PATHWORKS for DOS and Windows Software Product Descrip-
          tion (SPD 55.07) for the systems, components, and peripherals supported
          by the StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver DOS client and Windows client.

          Client Disk Space Requirements:

          Disk space required for      1.3 Mbytes
          DOS installation:

          Disk space required for      1.3 Mbytes
          Windows installation
          without console

          Disk space required for      1.5 Mbytes
          Windows installation with
          console

          Disk space required          2.2 Mbytes
          for DOS and Windows
          installation with console

          Disk space required for      900 Kbytes
          DOS use:

          Disk space required          800 Kbytes
          for Windows use without
          console

          Disk space required for      1 Mbytes
          Windows use with console

                                           7

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;


          Disk space required for      1.8 Mbytes
          DOS and Windows use

          The above are storage requirements for disk space on the client sys-
          tem disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending
          on the user's system environment, configuration, and software options.

          Macintosh Client Hardware Requirements

          Refer to the PATHWORKS for Macintosh Software Product Description (SPD
          31.53) for the systems, components, and peripherals supported by the
          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Macintosh client.

          o  One network connection (Ethernet, LocalTalk[R], or TokenTalk[R])
             supported for use with the associated base system

          Client Disk Space Requirements:

          Disk space required for      700 Kbytes
          installation:

          Disk space required for      700 Kbytes
          use (permanent):

          The above are storage requirements for disk space on the client sys-
          tem disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending
          on the user's system environment, configuration, and software options.

          Ordering Information

          Server/Client Package:

          This package contains one server license and one license to use up to
          15 clients, System Administrator's Guide, Installation documentation,
          and software distribution media. This software is distributed on sev-
          eral media types.




                                           8

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

          o  QB-3AYAA-AA TK50 Streaming Tape for VAX Systems

             *  QL-MR1A9-AA License for OpenVMS VAX server

             *  QL-388AL-3C License for 15 clients

             *  QA-MR1AA-H5 TK50 Distribution Media and Documentation

          o  QB-3AYAB-AA 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape for VAX Systems

             *  QL-MR1A9-AA License for OpenVMS VAX server

             *  QL-388AL-3C License for 15 clients

             *  QA-MR1AA-HM 9-track 1600 BPI Distribution Media and Documenta-
                tion

          o  QB-3AYAC-AA CD-ROM for Alpha Systems

             *  QL-387A9-AA License for OpenVMS Alpha Server

             *  QL-388AL-3C License for 15 clients

             *  QA-387AA-H8 CD-ROM Distribution Media and Documentation

          Client License Packages:

          There are several client license packages from which to choose. Each
          client license package contains one license with the right to use the
          number of clients specified.

          o  QL-388AL-3D License for 25 incremental clients

          o  QL-388AL-3E License for 50 incremental clients

          o  QL-388AL-3F License for 100 incremental clients

          o  QL-388AL-3G License for 150 incremental clients

          o  QL-388AL-3H License for 250 incremental clients

          o  QL-388AL-3J License for 500 incremental clients

          Media and Documentation Package:

                                           9

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;

          This package contains the System Administrator's Guide, the software
          Installation Guide, and software distribution media.

          o  QA-MR1AA-HM 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape for VAX Systems

          o  QA-MR1AA-H5 TK50 Streaming Tape for VAX Systems

          o  QA-387AA-H8 CD-ROM for Alpha Systems

          Documentation Package: QA-MR1AB-GZ

          This package contains the System Administrator's Guide and the soft-
          ware Installation Guide.

          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
          Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
          formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
          local Digital office.

          License Management Facility Support

          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Server supports the OpenVMS Li-
          cense Management Facility. License units for this product are allo-
          cated on a Traditional basis. StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Client
          allocates multiple license units for Concurrent Use. License manage-
          ment for StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Client is conducted by
          the server software.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
          OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01)
          or OpenVMS Alpha Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
          41.87) or to the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX
          Operating System documentation set.






                                           10

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version
          2.1;

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
          formation, contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
          chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
          Addendum of this SPD.

          Growth Considerations

          The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
          this product may be different from the requirements for the current
          version.

          [R]  Microsoft, MS, and MS-DOS are registered trademarks of Mi-
               crosoft Corporation.

          [R]  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
               chines, Inc.

          [TM] Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

          [R]  Apple, AppleTalk, Classic, LocalTalk, Macintosh, MacTCP,
               MacTerminal, and TokenTalk are registered trademarks of Apple
               Computer, Inc.

          [TM] Centris, Performa, Powerbook, and Quadra are trademarks of
               Apple Computer, Inc.

          [R]  Motif is a registered trademark of the Open Software Founda-
               tion Inc.

          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, Alpha, CI, DEC, DECnet, DECpc, DECstation,
               DECwindows, DEPCA, Digital, EtherWORKS, HSC, Infoserver, Mi-
               croVAX, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, Rdb/VMS, RX, RX33, StorageWorks,
               TK, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS
               are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

                                           11

 



          StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver                  SPD 41.55.02
          Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version 2.1; OpenVMS Alpha, Version 2.1;


          ©    Copyright (c) 1995 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights
               reserved.






































                                           12
