 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2        SPD
           25.D2.03

           DESCRIPTION

           DEC GKS-3D (Graphical Kernel System for Three Dimensions)
           for VMS provides the application programmer with a set of
           functions for interactive and non-interactive computer graph-
           ics applications that define and display computer-generated
           three-dimensional pictures using a variety of computer graph-
           ics equipment. DEC GKS-3D for VMS, as a development tool,
           is a solid base for portable, device-independent, three-dimensional
           graphics application development.

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS is a subroutine library packaged as a VMS
           Run-Time Library with shareable image device handlers.

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS implements the International Standard (ISO
           8805) Graphical Kernel System for Three Dimensional device-
           independent graphics. DEC GKS-3D for VMS conforms to level
           2c of the GKS-3D International Standard. Thus, it provides
           full output capabilities including workstation independent
           segment storage (level 2), and full input capabilities (syn-
           chronous and asynchronous input (level c)).

           Features

           Viewing Operations

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS allows the user to specify views of 3D
           objects and define the working coordinate system (world co-
           ordinates). World coordinates can have any scale. For ex-
           ample, one application might have a maximum range from 0 to

                                    DIGITAL           September 1991

                                                         AE-MQ13D-TE

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03


           1000.0 while another application might limit the range from
           0.01 to 0.1.

           The user can also control multiple simultaneous views of the
           same object on separate display surfaces, as well as the po-
           sition of the picture on the surface. For example, one ap-
           plication program can display an image of a cube in one win-
           dow on a workstation and at the same time, in another win-
           dow (on another workstation if required), it can display a
           detail of the rear of the cube.

           GKS-3D Metafile

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides an interface to sequential files,
           the ISO (8805) suggested GKS-3D Metafile for filing and read-
           ing (interpreting) and the ISO (7942) suggested GKSM Metafile
           for reading (interpreting) graphical information. The metafiles
           can be used for the following purposes:

           o  Storing graphical information in a device-independent for-
              mat

           o  Transporting graphical information between systems with
              compatible versions of GKS-3D

           o  Transporting graphical information from one DEC GKS-3D
              application to another

           o  Transporting graphical information from a DEC GKS appli-
              cation to a DEC GKS-3D application

           o  Storing accompanying nongraphical information

           Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM) Output

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides support for storing information
           using the Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM). CGM is an ap-
           proved ANSI standard format (ANSI X3.122-1986). DEC GKS for
           VMS supports CGM output for the following formats:


                                       2

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03


              Clear Text Encoding - Graphical output data stored in the
              clear text format is easily created, viewed, and modi-
              fied using a common text editor. It is also a suitable
              format for transferring graphical output data through net-
              works that only support the transfer of a text file.

              Character Encoding - Graphical output data is typically
              stored in the character format for minimal file size. Data
              stored in this format is particularly suitable for trans-
              fer through networks that cannot support binary trans-
              fers.

              Binary Encoding - Graphical output data stored in binary
              format is very compact and the fastest to read and write.
              However, it is the least suitable for transmission over
              communication lines as all 8 bits in each byte are mean-
              ingful.

           DDIF Output

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides support for storing two-dimensional
           views of three-dimensional objects encoded in Digital's Doc-
           ument Interchange Format (DDIF). Views stored in DDIF can
           be processed by applications that conform to Digital's Com-
           pound Document Architecture.

           DECwindows, OSF/Motif[R]

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides support for VMS DECwindows and
           VMS DECwindows for OSF/Motif.

           Escape Feature

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides an escape mechanism that allows
           the application programmer to access device capabilities not
           defined in the GKS standard.

           Character Sets



                                       3

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03


           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides a series of device-independent
           stroke precision character fonts. These character fonts were
           originally digitized by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the Naval
           Surface Weapons Laboratory and supplied to Digital by the
           National Bureau of Standards.

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS also provides text support for the na-
           tive character set(s) of the supported graphical devices.

           In DEC GKS-3D for VMS, text lies on a plane that may be ar-
           bitrarily positioned in 3D space.

           Language Bindings

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS functions can be accessed by four sets
           of subroutine calls:

           o  An interface that conforms to the ISO (DIS 8806/1) FOR-
              TRAN binding to GKS-3D.

              The FORTRAN binding interface allows users to port GKS-3D
              applications that are written in FORTRAN across hetero-
              geneous operating systems with conforming implementations
              of the FORTRAN binding and GKS-3D.

           o  An interface that conforms to a 3D extension of the ISO
              (OP 8651/4) C language binding to GKS.

           o  A VMS-specific interface is provided that follows the stan-
              dard VMS calling conventions and is callable by many dif-
              ferent languages.

           o  A DEC GKS compatibility binding (2D), which follows the
              standard VMS calling conventions and is callable by many
              different languages.

           Graphic Handlers




                                       4

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03


           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides support for a wide variety of
           Digital and non-Digital graphics output devices and support
           for Digital VAXstations as input and output devices. Refer
           to the OPTIONAL HARDWARE section in the System Support Ad-
           dendum (SSA 25.D2.03-x)

           Compatibility With Two-Dimensional DEC GKS

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS is upward compatible with Digital's DEC
           GKS (two-dimensional Graphical Kernel System) to the limit
           of the GKS-3D standard required upwards compatibility with
           the GKS (ISO 7942) standard. DEC GKS graphics applications,
           written to conform to the ISO standard, will run using DEC
           GKS-3D for VMS.

           Output Functions

           Segments   DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides a set of functions
                      for the creation, manipulation, and deletion
                      of stored groups of output primitives called
                      segments.
           Immediate  It is not mandatory to use segments. DEC
           Mode       GKS-3D for VMS provides a way of immedi-
                      ately outputting graphic primitives to the
                      device(s). This can be useful in certain
                      applications.
           Polyline   Draws one or more connected line segments
                      between points defined in 3D space by an
                      arbitrary sequence of 3D coordinates.
           Polymarker Draws one or more symbols that mark signifi-
                      cant points in a picture in a position defined
                      by arbitrary 3D coordinates.
           Text       Draws any character string on a plane arbi-
                      trarily placed within 3D space. Characters
                      can be displayed in a variety of fonts and
                      orientations.





                                       5

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03



           Fill       Draws a polygonal area on a plane arbitrarily
           Area       placed in 3D space. This area can be hollow or
                      filled with a uniform color, a pattern, or a
                      hatch style.
           Fill       Draws a set of polygonal areas, which can
           Area Set   be hollow or filled with a uniform color,
                      a pattern or a hatch style. Edge control is
                      provided.
           Cell       Draws a rectangular image, specified by a two-
           Array      dimensional array of picture elements, on a
                      plane arbitrarily placed in 3D space.
           GeneralizedAllows access to drawing capabilities of
           Drawing    graphics devices that are not used by the
           Prim-      functions listed above. Circles and arcs are
           itive      examples of two GDPs commonly used.
           (GDP)

           Attributes

           Each output function has an associated set of ``attributes''
           that control the appearance of the output. Attributes can
           be defined in groups (called bundles) or individually. Ex-
           amples of attributes for polyline are:

           Line       The programmer can control the style of a
           Type       line. For example, lines can be dotted or
                      dashed.
           Line       In addition to line type, the width and scale
           Width      of the line in 3D can be controlled.
           Color      Color selection is performed by selecting one
                      of the predefined colors or by specifying the
                      red, green, and blue intensities required to
                      define a particular color on color devices.

           Input Functions

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS supports synchronous and asynchronous in-
           put using any of the following input methods:


                                       6

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03



           Locator    Returns a point within the user's working
                      coordinate system.
           Stroke     Returns a series of points within the user's
                      working coordinate system.
           Valuator   Returns a single real value within a specified
                      range.
           Choice     Returns a status and a single non-negative
                      integer within a specified range.
           String     Returns a string of characters.
           Pick       Returns a status and a segment name and pick
                      identifier. (Primitives outside segments
                      cannot be picked.)

           Control Functions

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides control functions for managing
           the manner and devices on which pictures will be displayed.
           These include GKS-3D initialization and termination, and func-
           tions that control the opening and closing of logical graph-
           ical devices.

           Inquiry Functions

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS provides a complete set of inquiry func-
           tions that aid in developing modular device-independent pro-
           grams.

           DEC GKS-3D for VMS Run-Time Only License

           The DEC GKS-3D for VMS Run-Time license does not allow the
           user to create new applications, but allows execution of ap-
           plications previously developed using the full DEC GKS-3D
           for VMS Developer's Kit.







                                       7

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D2.02-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

           VMS Operating System

           For Workstations Running VWS:

           VMS Operating System
           VMS Workstation Software

           For Workstations Running DECwindows:

           VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwin-
           dows and/or VMS DECwindows Motif[R])

           For development of a DEC GKS-3D application to run under VMS,
           one of the DEC GKS-3D supported languages is also required.

           *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.D2.02-x) for
              availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
              software, and for information regarding components of VMS
              DECwindows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Development:

           Software Licenses: QL-VFXA*-**
           Software Media: QA-VFXAA-H*
           Software Documentation: QA-VFXAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-VFXA*-**

           Run-Time Only:


                                       8

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03


           Software Licenses: QL-VFYA*-**
           Software Media: QA-VFYAA-H*
           Software Product Services: QT-VFYA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support:

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

           This layered product offers a Personal Use license. Each Per-
           sonal Use license allows one identified individual to use
           the layered product.

           This layered product offers a Concurrent Use license. Each
           Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time
           to use the layered product.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.






                                       9

 



           DEC GKS-3D for VMS, Version 1.2             SPD 25.D2.03


           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R]   Apple and LaserWriter are registered trademarks of
               Apple Computer, Inc.

           [R]   Hewlett-Packard, HP, and HPGL are registered trade-
               marks of Hewlett-Packard Company.

           [R]   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.

           [R]   TEKTRONIX and Tek are registered trademarks of Tek-
               tronix, Inc.

           [R]   OSF/Motif and Motif are registered trademarks of Open
               Software Foundation, Inc.

           [TM]LASERGRAPHICS MPS-200 is a trademark of Laser Graph-
               ics, Inc.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, Companion, DEC, DECwindows, DE-
               Claser, DECstation, DECsystem, LA, LA50, LA75, LN03,
               LN03 ScriptPrinter, LVP16, TK, MicroVAX, ReGIS, VAX,
               VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX BLISS-32, VAX C, VAX COBOL,
               VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal, VAX PL/I, VAXcluster, VAXft,
               VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT330, and VT340 are
               trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.





                                      10
