 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC PHIGS for VMS, Version 2.3C         SPD 29.38.08

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC PHIGS (Programmers Hierarchical Interactive Graphics System) for
 VMS is a sophisticated 3D graphics support system that controls the
 definition, modification, and display of hierarchical graphics data.
 DEC PHIGS for VMS manages the organization and display of graphical
 data stored in a conceptually centralized database.

 DEC PHIGS for VMS is Digital Equipment Corporation's implementation
 of the 1988 ANSI/ISO PHIGS standard for three dimensional (3D) device-
 independent graphics. DEC PHIGS for VMS provides the standard FORTRAN
 and C language bindings as well as a language-independent (PHIGS$) bind-
 ing. DEC PHIGS for VMS is supported on most Digital processors run-
 ning the VMS Operating System.

 DEC PHIGS for VMS is device independent. That is, the same program can
 generate graphical output on different devices without modification
 to the source code. DEC PHIGS for VMS supports DECwindows, DECwindows
 Motif(R) or VMS Workstation Software (VWS). DEC PHIGS for VMS also sup-
 ports most of the hardcopy devices supported by DEC GKS, such as the
 HP-GL(R) series of plotters and Digital's compatible sixel devices, as
 well as all the terminals supported by DEC GKS.

 DEC PHIGS for VMS is a subroutine library packaged as a set of share-
 able images which the application program is linked against. The share-
 able images are activated at run-time as needed.

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides PHIGS PLUS features and GM/EDS extensions
 in addition to those specified in the PHIGS standard. These additional
 features include:

 o  Hidden line/hidden surface removal (HLHSR)

                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-KX14L-TE

 

 o  Lighting, shading, and depth cuing

 o  Additional primitives

    -  Circles

    -  Circular Arcs

    -  Triangle Strips

    -  Quadrilateral Meshes

    -  Indexed Polygons

    -  Trimmed and Untrimmed NURBs (non-uniform rational B-splines)

 Functionality Not Supported by DEC PHIGS for VMS:

 Some functionality from the PHIGS Standard has not been implemented
 in DEC PHIGS for VMS.

 o  Modeling clip

 o  Metafiles

 o  Cell array

 o  Patterns

 o  Incremental spatial search

 Features

 Structure Storage

 DEC PHIGS for VMS maintains a graphical database known as structure
 storage. Output primitives (polylines, polymarkers, etc.), attribute
 selection functions, labels, application data, name set specifications,
 transformation selections, and structure references are all structure
 elements that are placed in the structure store. These elements can
 be edited at any time by the application program. Graphical output is
 generated by a structure traversal mechanism that interprets items in
 the structure store.

                                  2

 

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides an alternate traversal mechanism called im-
 mediate mode. Using immediate mode, PHIGS primitives can be rendered
 directly to the display surface without being placed in structure stor-
 age.

 Viewing Operations

 DEC PHIGS for VMS allows the definition of objects in their own "mod-
 eling" coordinate systems. Transformation functions are provided to
 position these objects with respect to one another in a "world" co-
 ordinate system. World coordinates can have any scale. For example,
 one application might have a maximum range from 0 to 1000.0 while an-
 other application might limit the range from 0.01 to 0.1. DEC PHIGS
 for VMS automatically converts from the world coordinate systems into
 coordinates appropriate for the display device being used.

 The user can control multiple simultaneous views of the same object
 on separate display surfaces, as well as the position and size of the
 picture on the surface.

 In addition to the PHIGS standard viewing model, DEC PHIGS for VMS also
 provides alternate viewing functionality commonly known as "posting
 to views."

 Control Functions

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides special functions for management of the pic-
 ture process including PHIGS initialization and termination, and func-
 tions that control the opening and closing of logical graphical de-
 vices.

 Output Functions

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides functions for creating both 2D and 3D graph-
 ics elements in structure storage. Some of these functions allow light-
 ing and shading information to be specified. These functions are:




                                  3

 

 
 Polyline    -   Draws one or more connected line segments.

 Polymarker  -   Draws one or more symbols which can mark signifi-
                 cant points in a picture.

 Text        -   Draws a character string. Characters can be dis-
                 played in a variety of fonts and orientations.
                 Text size is affected by transformations.

 Fill Area   -   Draws a polygonal area which can be hollow or
                 filled with a uniform color or a hatch style.

 Fill Area   -   Draws a set of polygonal areas with holes or dis-
 Set             joint regions that are treated as a single entity.
                 Control of edge attributes is provided with this
                 primitive.

 Annotation  -   Draws a character string in an X-Y plane (always
 Text            readable). Characters can be displayed in a va-
 Relative        riety of fonts and orientations. Text size is not
                 affected by transformations, but text position is
                 affected.

 Circle and  -   Draws a circle or circular arc at the specified
 Circular        position in two-dimensional form.
 Arc

 Triangle    -   Generates a sequence of triangles. Each trian-
 Strip           gle shares an edge with the next triangle in the
                 strip.

 Quadrilateral-  Generates a sequence of quadrilateral polygons.
 Mesh

 Indexed     -   Generates a sequence of polygons that permits
 Polygons        PHIGS to take advantage of shared vertices.

 NURBs       -   Non-Uniform Rational B-spline. Generates a 3D
                 curve or surface from user-specified control
                 points and approximation criteria.

 Attributes

                                  4

 

 Each output function has an associated set of attributes which con-
 trol the appearance of the output. Attributes can be defined in groups
 (bundles) or individually. Attributes are:

 
 Line Type   -   The programmer can control the style of a line.
                 For example, lines can be dotted or dashed.

 Line Width  -   In addition to line type, the width of the line
                 can be controlled.

 Color       -   Color selection is performed by selecting one of
                 the predefined colors or by specifying the red,
                 green, and blue intensities required to define a
                 particular color on color devices.

 Character   -   A specific font, as well as the character spac-
 Attributes      ing, height, angle, path, and alignment, can be
                 specified.

 Input Functions

 DEC PHIGS for VMS supports synchronous and asynchronous input using
 any of the six different input methods listed below.
 
 Locator     -   Returns a point in the user's world coordinate
                 system.

 Stroke      -   Returns a series of points in the user's world
                 coordinate system.

 Valuator    -   Returns a single floating point value within a
                 specified range.

 Choice      -   Returns a single non-negative integer within a
                 specified range.

 String      -   Returns a string of characters.

 Pick        -   Returns a pick path which consists of a list of
                 structure identifier, pick identifier, and element
                 number for each level in the structure network.

 Name Sets

                                  5

 

 DEC PHIGS for VMS includes the concept of name sets. Individual prim-
 itives can be associated with members of a name set that is used to
 determine eligibility for highlighting, visibility, and picking. For
 example, in an architectural drawing, all steam pipes can be associ-
 ated with one member of a name set and all water pipes with another.
 These sets of pipes can then be made invisible, pickable, or highlighted
 as a group.

 Inquiry Functions

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides a complete set of inquiry functions which
 aid in developing modular, device-independent programs.

 PHIGS Archive Files

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides an interface to archive files which allows
 for all or part of structure storage to be saved for later recall. Archive
 files can be used for the following purposes:

 o  Saving and restoring graphical information between sessions

 o  Transporting graphical information between DEC systems with com-
    patible versions of DEC PHIGS

 o  Transporting graphical information from one DEC PHIGS application
    to another DEC PHIGS application

 o  Storing accompanying nongraphical information

 Character Fonts

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides a series of stroke precision character fonts.
 These character fonts were digitized by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the
 Naval Surface Weapons Laboratory and supplied to Digital by the Na-
 tional Bureau of Standards.

 Language Binding

 DEC PHIGS for VMS functions can be accessed by three sets of subrou-
 tine calls. DEC PHIGS for VMS provides an interface which conforms to
 the proposed ANSI and ISO standard FORTRAN and C bindings to PHIGS,

                                  6

 

 as well as a Digital-specified PHIGS$ interface which follows the stan-
 dard VMS calling conventions and is callable from many different lan-
 guages.

 The FORTRAN and C binding interfaces allow users to transport PHIGS
 applications written in FORTRAN or C across heterogeneous operating
 systems with conforming implementations of PHIGS and the FORTRAN or
 C bindings. Calls to the C language binding cannot be mixed with calls
 to the other language bindings in the same application.

 Graphic Handlers

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides support for a wide variety of Digital and
 non-Digital graphics devices. In addition, users can develop their own
 graphic device handlers for devices that Digital does not support via
 the DEC GKS 2D device handler interface. This is described in  Build-
 ing a DEC GKS Device Handler System manual, which can be purchased sep-
 arately (Order No. AA-MJ33A-TE). Device handlers can be developed in
 VAX FORTRAN, VAX C, and VAX Pascal.

 Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM) Output

 DEC PHIGS for VMS provides support for storing information using the
 Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM). CGM is an approved ANSI standard for-
 mat (ANSI X3.122-1986). DEC PHIGS supports CGM output for the follow-
 ing formats:

 Clear Text Encoding - Graphical output data stored in the clear text
 format is easily created, viewed, and modified using a common text ed-
 itor. It is also a suitable format for transferring graphical output
 data through networks that only support the transfer of a text file.

 Character Encoding - Graphical output data is typically stored in the
 character format for minimal file size. Data stored in this format is
 particularly suitable for transfer through networks that cannot sup-
 port binary transfers.




                                  7

 

 Binary Encoding - Graphical output data stored in binary format is very
 compact and the fastest to read and write. However, it is the least
 suitable for transmission over communication lines as all 8 bits in
 each byte are meaningful.

 DEC PHIGS Run-Time Only License

 Since DEC PHIGS for VMS is a graphics application development tool,
 Digital provides a Run-Time Only License for running graphics appli-
 cations that were developed utilizing DEC PHIGS graphics. This license
 is offered at a substantially reduced cost per CPU. The DEC PHIGS Run-
 Time License does not allow the user to create new applications, but
 rather allows execution of applications that were previously devel-
 oped on a CPU where the full PHIGS product has been installed under
 a Single Use License Option.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 29.38.08-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 VMS Operating System

 For Workstations Running VMS Workstation Software:

 VMS Operating System

 VMS Workstation Software

 For Workstations Running VMS DECwindows:

 VMS Operating System (and the necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

 For Workstations Running VMS DECwindows Motif:

 VMS Operating System (and the necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

                                  8

 

 VMS DECwindows Motif

 Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required ver-
 sions of prerequisite/optional software and for information regard-
 ing components of VMS DECwindows (SSA 29.38.08-x).

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Development Option

 Software Licenses: QL-0KBA*-**
 Software Media: QA-0KBA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-0KBAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-0KBA*-**

 Run-Time Option

 Software Licenses: QL-VK1A*-**
 Software Media: QA-VK1A*-**
 Software Product Services: QT-VK1A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for the full development system are allocated on an Un-
 limited System Use and Personal Use basis. License units for the run-
 time option are allocated on an Unlimited System Use and a Concurrent
 Use basis.

                                  9

 

 Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use the
 layered product. Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individ-
 ual at a time to use the layered product.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 (R)  Apple and LaserWriter are registered trademarks of Apple Com-
    puter, Inc.

 (R)  Hewlett-Packard, HP, and HP-GL are registered trademarks of
    Hewlett-Packard Company.

 (R)  Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 (R)  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Incorpo-
    rated.

 (R)  TEKTRONIX and Tek are registered trademarks of Tektronix, Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DEC GKS, DEClaser, DEC PHIGS,
    DECwindows, Digital, LA50, LA324, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LVP16, Mi-
    croVAX, ReGIS, TK, VAX, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX C, VAX FORTRAN,
    VAXft, VAX Pascal, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT330, and VT340
    are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

                                 10
