 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECwrite for VMS,             SPD 25.F7.02
                          Version 2.0 

           DESCRIPTION

           DECwrite is a compound document processing application that
           combines word processing, publishing, graphics creation, data
           driven charting, image integration, and live links to sup-
           ported applications and data.

           DECwrite is compliant with Digital's Compound Document Ar-
           chitecture (CDA) and, therefore, can take advantage of the
           CDA converter architecture and system level support. This
           system level support includes the ability to mail compound
           documents across the enterprise.

           Features

           User Interface

           DECwrite presents functions through a graphical user inter-
           face. Functions are represented through menu selections and
           an icon-oriented function bar.

           DECwrite offers users a choice of short menus which contain
           the most frequently used features, or full menus that con-
           tain all features. The short menus contain the top-level items
           such as File, Edit, Format, Insert, Page, Draw, Utilities,
           and Options. Users can shift back and forth between short
           and full menus at any time during an editing session.

           Note: Only systems using VMS 5.4 or higher will be able to
           shift back and forth within the editing session.

                                    DIGITAL             October 1991

                                                         AE-MJ95C-TE

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           The function bar provides a point and click access to func-
           tions such as page location, style selection, font family,
           text size, justification, language, zoom, application of plain,
           bold, italic, and underline renditions, paragraph and line
           spacing, spell checking, hidden symbols, and page layout.
           The function bar is dynamic and tracks the attributes at the
           current cursor position.

           The combination of pull-down menus, function bar, keyboard
           sequences, and dialogue boxes contains all of the functions
           needed to utilize DECwrite. The menus also display the key-
           board equivalents provided to perform these functions from
           the keyboard.

           DECwrite also provides five context-sensitive pop-up menus.
           These menus pop up near the pointer position for easy ac-
           cess. The pop-up menus include the most frequently used edit-
           ing features for text and graphics, as well as the entries
           for the most commonly used styles, tables, and objects.

           DECwrite supports multilingual installations and provides
           language switching via the DECwindows Session Manager. Se-
           lecting a language in the Session Manager automatically sets
           the user interface language for DECwrite.

           The user interface also features the following:

           o  Rulers with tracking and grids for easy placement of text
              blocks and objects.

           o  Snap to ruler on or off.

           o  Status display boxes which display information such as
              the current page number, first and last page, current style,
              text block connections, and graphic object size.

           o  A vertical and horizontal scroll bar.




                                       2

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           DECwrite emulates several keyboard styles including GOLD KEY
           for WPS-PLUS compatibility, WordPerfect[TM] and Microsoft[R]
           Word; EVE, EDT, and EMACS for technical users and a DECwrite,
           specific keyboard interface.

           Help

           DECwrite features context-sensitive help on many functions.
           The Help, provides detailed information on how to utilize
           DECwrite features and aids the user in becoming proficient
           in creating DECwrite documents. In addition, an online tu-
           torial, which aids the user in learning DECwrite concepts,
           can be accessed from Help.

           Editor

           DECwrite includes a full word processing editor with func-
           tions such as select, cut, copy, paste, undo, redo, and nav-
           igation. DECwrite features sophisticated search and replace
           capabilities including the ability to search for returns,
           special characters, patterns, and arbitrary white space.

           Advanced editorial features such as redlining, change bars,
           and change pages make DECwrite an appropriate application
           for documentation and publication groups.

           DECwrite includes Houghton Mifflin's high-quality hyphen-
           ation routines and an American lexicon based on the Amer-
           ican Heritage Dictionary (included with the United States
           version only).

           DECwrite allows the user to create exception dictionaries
           for words that would not commonly appear in a standard dic-
           tionary. The exception dictionaries can be kept locally or
           used globally in a DECwrite workgroup. Hyphenation can also
           be controlled with discretionary hyphens, or disabled on a
           paragraph by paragraph basis.




                                       3

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           DECwrite supports multiple language hyphenation. For exam-
           ple, French and German may be used within the same document.
           Supported language hyphenation includes: Dutch, English (Amer-
           ican and British), French, Spanish, Italian, German, Swedish,
           Norwegian, Portuguese, Finnish, and Danish.

           DECwrite allows users to verify and correct spelling in mul-
           tiple languages. For example, when French and German are used
           within a document, the spelling of the words in those lan-
           guages is checked if the French and German optional lexi-
           cons are added to the system. Optional language lexicons are
           available. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.F7.02-
           x) for further information.

           In addition, for American English only, the user may ver-
           ify and correct word usage and access an electronic thesaurus.

           Rulers/Tabs

           DECwrite provides left, right, center, and decimal tab align-
           ment. Users can modify the current ruler, which affects con-
           secutive paragraphs that have the same ruler. Starting a new
           ruler affects the current and all following consecutive para-
           graphs that have the same ruler. Rulers can also be saved
           as part of a paragraph style.

           Table Editor

           DECwrite provides a cellular table editor that allows users
           to create tables for presenting information. Tables can in-
           clude text, graphics, or numeric data. Users have access to
           all paragraph and text formatting from within a table. Rows
           and columns can be joined and split, added or deleted. Con-
           tents can be aligned left, right, or center within the ta-
           ble cell, and copy, cut, paste, and clear functions can be
           performed. Tables can float with text or be fixed to the page.
           ASCII text can be imported into a table and a new table is
           created if necessary.



                                       4

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           DECwrite provides pre-defined table styles and users can de-
           fine and store their own table styles.

           Mail Merge

           With DECwrite's mail merge function, users can create form
           letters using variables inside a form document. A records
           file containing the variables can be either a text file in
           WPS-PLUS or tabular format, or a DDIF file. Unique documents
           are automatically printed as PostScript[R] output or saved as
           a DECwrite document.

           Variables

           DECwrite supports the definition of variables to streamline
           the creation of documents with common elements, such as doc-
           ument number, author, revision number, company name, etc.
           When the variable definition changes, all locations in a doc-
           ument are updated. Variables may be defined in a style file
           for shared use.

           Tables of Contents

           DECwrite automatically creates a table of contents from the
           titles in a document. Users can create a table of contents
           anywhere in a document and it can be edited and regenerated
           at any time.

           The table of contents entries are formatted based on the ti-
           tle styles of the entries, and the overall format of the ta-
           ble of contents is determined by the table of contents style.

           Index Generation

           An index generated by DECwrite contains user-entered phrases
           up to four levels deep. For each level, a sorting order may
           optionally be specified, (for numbers or special characters,
           for example). An index can be regenerated at any time and
           can be edited for last minute changes.

           Cross-References

                                       5

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           Users can reference one part of a DECwrite document to an-
           other, for example, "See Figure 3 on page 45." With a cross-
           reference, users can refer to a label, textual content, or
           page number of a title, paragraph, or list item anywhere in
           the document.

           LiveLink

           DECwrite includes a LiveLink capability which allows the user
           to link a variety of supported applications and their data
           to DECwrite documents. Data that is linked to DECwrite is
           shown as part of the DECwrite document and may be updated
           automatically to reflect changes in the source file when the
           document is next edited. Conversely, updates can be controlled
           by the user so they occur only when desired. Links to ap-
           plications can be modified or deleted by the user at any time.

           DECwrite can link to data wherever it exists in the network
           as long as the user has privileges to access the data. Links
           can be specified with several file location types. These in-
           clude: with the document, in a private library, in a net-
           work library, and in a system library. This file type lo-
           cation tells DECwrite where to look for the linked data and
           how the compound document should be packaged for mailing.

           Applications which can be LiveLinked to DECwrite include:

           o  DECdecision (refer to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section in
              the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.F7.02.x)).

           o  DECview3D (refer to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section in the
              System Support Addendum)

           o  DECpaint (included with DECwindows)

           o  DECchart (included with DECwrite and DECdecision)

           o  DECwrite Equation Editor (included with DECwrite)

           o  DECpresent (refer to the OPTIONAL SOFTWARE section in the
              System Support Addendum)

                                       6

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           Links to DECdecision

           DECdecision is a VMS workstation-based decision support ap-
           plication that runs under VMS DECwindows and is comprised
           of four major software components:

           o  DECquery, for ad-hoc database queries.

           o  Calc, for analyzing financial and business data.

           o  Chart, for generating business graphs.

           o  Builder, for automating repetitive tasks across appli-
              cations by recording and playing back user actions.

           DECwrite can link to any of these components to combine ta-
           bles, charts, text, and graphics into one document.

           Data Links

           It is possible to link to other DECwrite documents, to DDIF
           pictures and images, and to final form data such as Encap-
           sulated PostScript (EPSF) files.

           Converters

           DECwrite uses the CDA converter architecture to interchange
           data with other applications. The converter architecture as-
           sures that a variety of formats can be converted to Digi-
           tal Document Interchange Format (DDIF), which is DECwrite's
           file format.

           The converters included with DECwrite include a two-way WPL
           converter which allows WPS-PLUS documents to be brought into
           and saved from DECwrite, a two way DX converter (for DX files
           generated by WPS-PLUS or other applications), and a one way
           smart text import function for converting ASCII text into
           DDIF.

           DECwrite also includes WK1, WK3, DIF, CALC$GRD, ASCII Tab-
           ular, and ASCII field converters allowing data from these
           formats to be imported into DECchart.

                                       7

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           Additional converters are available through the CDA Converter
           Library for VMS. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA
           31.31.xx-x) for further information.

           Export to Bookreader

           DECwrite can be used as an authoring tool for the creation
           of online documentation when used in conjunction with the
           Export to Bookreader function. DECwrite will create topic
           or page based books with graphics, tables and footnotes as
           in-line content or in pop-ups (separate window). The DECwrite
           Table of Contents and Index are used for Bookreader navi-
           gation and all cross references become Bookreader hot spots.

           Text Styles

           DECwrite allows users to create text styles for the follow-
           ing types of elements:

           o  Paragraphs

           o  Titles

           o  Lists

           o  Tables

           o  Footnotes

           o  Table of contents

           o  Indexes

           Users have full formatting control through the use of styles.
           By modifying style attributes the user can create other styles
           such as abstracts and subheads.

           Users may copy and then modify the default style files sup-
           plied with DECwrite, or they may create new style files of
           their own. These user-defined style files are linked to doc-
           uments and may be used in any number of documents. In ad-
           dition, style files may be shared among users.

                                       8

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           This method of formatting under style file control allows
           the document content to remain separate from the document
           format. The user has total control over document appearance.
           Style information is entered into fill-in-the-blank dialog
           boxes. The user may change point sizes, fonts, line spac-
           ing, justification modes, and the other text attributes.

           Document appearance is automatically modified when the user
           changes the definition of a style. A user can give an el-
           ement a new style at any time. For example, a user can change
           all main heads into subheads by simply applying a subhead
           style. Styles may be changed globally, which makes DECwrite
           an appropriate product for long documents.

           When local changes are desired, such as bolding a word, the
           user may utilize the function bar, the bold key, the for-
           mat menu, or the text attributes box which lists a variety
           of rendition attributes such as fonts, point-sizes, slant,
           etc. This gives the user flexibility in making quick one-
           time changes versus global style changes.

           Page Composition and Pagination

           DECwrite provides a variety of layout functions for text,
           pages, and documents. Text styles are discussed separately
           (Refer to Text Styles). Pages are formatted through page styles.
           Page styles can be defined for single or double-sided pages.
           Any number of page styles can be used in a document for max-
           imum layout flexibility. Items such as running headers and
           footers, logos, and page or column rules which appear repet-
           itively throughout the document can be stored as part of page
           styles, and are automatically placed on each page.

           A user may choose to create the page layouts of a document
           through a dialogue box or to interactively create page lay-
           outs for specific pages. DECwrite automatically links text
           flows from column to column and page to page, or a user may
           connect text flows in a non-contiguous fashion for documents
           such as newsletters.


                                       9

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           The formatting capabilities provided with DECwrite include:

           o  Automatic pagination with auto page numbering

           o  Running headers and footers which may contain graphics
              or text

           o  Up to 100 columns per page with the ability to freely mix
              a variable number of columns per page, e.g., two columns
              at the top of a page and three at the bottom

           o  Hyphenation according to dictionary or algorithm

           o  Alignment (justified, ragged-right, ragged-left, or cen-
              tered)

           o  Vertical justification

           o  Widow and orphan control

           o  Manual kerning

           o  Font scaling from 2-300 point type in .01 point incre-
              ments

           o  Support for installation of additional fonts

           o  Support for the ISO-Latin 1 character set

           o  Macros for user-defined functions

           o  Hierarchical lists and sublists with automatic "number-
              ing" (numeric, alphabetic, or characters) and user-controlled
              indents

           o  Automatic numbering of sections, chapters, headings, para-
              graphs, lists, sublists, footnotes, and appendices

           o  Automatic cross-referencing

           o  Numeric references for footnotes, superscripting of foot-
              note references automatically generated

           o  Sidenotes

           o  Redlining, change bars and change pages

                                      10

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           o  Spell Corrector, (American English only) Usage Alert, and
              Electronic Thesaurus (American English only)

           o  Generation of table of contents and index (up to four lev-
              els for index entries)

           o  Right, left, center, and decimal tabs, with or without
              user-defined leaders

           o  Equation editor

           o  LiveLinks to other supported applications

           o  Ability to mix page sizes and portrait and landscape pages
              within a document

           Link to Document

           DECwrite includes a Link to Document function which allows
           the user to link files together to form a complete document.
           Chapters and pages are correctly numbered and a table of con-
           tents or index may be generated for the entire document. This
           feature allows users to work on different sections of a doc-
           ument and then easily combine those into a consecutively num-
           bered document. This feature allows DECwrite to be used in
           a multi-author environment.

           Graphics Editor

           DECwrite includes an object-oriented graphics editor which
           contains the following objects - lines (constrained or at
           any angle), square, rounded square, rectangle, rounded rect-
           angle, circle, ellipse, arc, polygon and polyline. Arcs can
           be open or closed, pie wedge or chord. Objects may be filled
           with patterns or shaded, and their outlines may be solid,
           dotted, dashed, or a pattern. Objects may also be drawn in
           a wide variety of line weights. A freehand drawing tool is
           also provided.



                                      11

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           Annotation arrows (or lines or polylines) with filled, open,
           double, or single arrowheads can be easily applied to draw-
           ings or on top of images. Text labels may be placed next to
           the arrows to identify parts of a drawing.

           All graphic objects, including text labels, can be sized and
           scaled visually to a percentage or to exact dimensions. Line
           widths may be scaled or not. Alignment, duplication, and space
           distribution features allow the user to easily create di-
           agrams, schematics, flowcharts, etc.

           Graphics can be placed anywhere within a document includ-
           ing above or below text, in table cells, or in running head-
           ers and footers. Graphics may be placed in frames which can
           be anchored to various reference points in text or to a par-
           ticular place on a page, including the margin.

           Clip Art

           DECwrite contains a large selection of clip art files in DDIF
           and EPSF format. The DDIF clip art is fully editable in DECwrite.

           DECchart

           The DECchart component is an easy to use and easy to learn
           data charting application that allows users to create pro-
           fessional business graphics for their compound documents.
           Users need only specify two things, the data to be charted
           and the chart style desired. A chart is automatically gen-
           erated. DECchart features include:

           o  Nine pre-defined chart types: Bar, Column, Line, Pie, Area,
              Scatter, Hi-Lo, Histogram, Combination

           o  Up to 45 chart style variations from which to choose

           o  Ability to modify pre-defined chart styles to create user,
              defined chart styles



                                      12

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           o  Import data from: Lotus[R]1-2-3[R], DECalc and DECalc-PLUS,
              DECgraph, DIF, and ASCII files, and tables from DECde-
              cision

           o  Easy to use worksheet interface for data entry, modifi-
              cation and manipulation (cut, copy, and paste data in the
              worksheet)

           o  Automatic trend line generation for scatter charts

           o  Graphic annotation, overlay: text, lines, rectangles and
              arrowheads anywhere on a chart for emphasis and customiza-
              tion

           o  Color support, assigning color attributes to: axes, base-
              line, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks, column and
              bar fills and overlay objects.

           o  Modification of chart attributes including: axes, base-
              line, data values, frame, grids, legend, tags, tick marks,
              drop shadows, bar spacing and bar overlap

           o  Modification of text attributes, changing: font size, fam-
              ily, weight and slant

           o  File flexibility: saving data, chart style, chart over-
              lay and color selections separately or save everything
              together

           o  Selectable fill patterns, line patterns, marker types and
              attributes

           o  Customization with user preferences

           o  Ability to move and resize overlay objects

           Images and Graphic Formats

           DECwrite can link to or include black and white, gray scale
           and color images. Images can be scanned in with the DECim-
           age Scanning Application and the MD-300 Scanner and TIFF im-
           ages can be imported via an optional converter. Refer to the

                                      13

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           System Support Addendum (SSA 25.F7.02-x) for further infor-
           mation on the CDA Converter Library for VMS).

           Image files created with DECwindows Paint can also be linked
           into DECwrite. Once images are in a DECwrite document they
           can be annotated, scaled or cropped.

           Encapsulated PostScript files may be linked into DECwrite
           and if the Display PostScript extensions to DECwindows are
           available these graphics will be displayed on the screen.

           Optional graphic converters are available in the CDA Con-
           verter Library for VMS (refer to the System Support Adden-
           dum for further information).

           Document Styles

           DECwrite includes fifteen pre-defined style files; general,
           example, letter, manual, simple memo, technical memo, Mil
           Spec, newsletter, price list, report, portrait slide, land-
           scape slide, technical slide, technical journal, and tele-
           phone directory. These document styles can be used as is,
           with other documents, or they can be easily modified by the
           user to suit any specifications. A set of companion style
           files for Bookreader output are also included.

           High Quality Output

           DECwrite provides high-quality output to Digital PostScript
           printers such as the ScriptPrinter (LN03R), DEClaser 3250,
           the PrintServer 20, PrintServer 40, and the PrintServer 40
           Plus.

           DECchart can output to the PostScript printers previously
           listed.






                                      14

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processors and/or hardware configuration as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 25.F7.02-x).

           Display Devices:

           DECwrite will run on any of the above processors, but re-
           quires either a workstation, a VT1200*, VT1300*, a VAXELN
           Window Server for VMS*, or an Intel[R] 80286* or 80386* with
           PC DECwindows for display.

           *  Not recommended as replacements for workstations. There
              are a number of restrictions imposed by these display de-
              vices (number of simultaneously open windows, ability to
              support the Export to Bookreader feature, support for inter-
              application cut and paste of large amounts of text, graph-
              ics, or images, absence of support for Display PostScript).

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.F7.02-x) for
           supported hardware configurations.

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System and (necessary components of VMS DECwin-
           dows)

           *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.F7.02-x) for
              availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
              software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-VVF**-**
           Software Media: QA-VVF*A-H5
           Software Documentation: QA-VVF*A-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-VVF**-**




                                      15

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           Note: Software Product Services are only available in the
           United States for the DECwrite American English product.

           DECwrite for VMS is available in 13 language variants:

           _________________________________________________________
           _____Language_________Product_Name_______________________

                Chinese          DECwrite/Hanyu

                Danish           DECwrite/Dansk

                Dutch            DECwrite/Nederlands

                English          DECwrite

                Finnish          DECwrite/Suomi

                French           DECwrite/Français

                German           DECwrite/Deutsch

                Italian          DECwrite/Italiano

                Japanese         DECwrite/Japanese

                Korean           DECwrite/Hangul

                Norwegian        DECwrite/Norsk

                Spanish          DECwrite/Espãnol

           _____Swedish__________DECwrite/Svenska___________________

           Note: The English language variant can be installed as ei-
           ther American or British English.

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

                                      16

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use, Personal Use, and Concurrent Use basis. Each
           Personal Use license allows one identified individual to use
           the layered product. Each Concurrent Use license allows any
           one individual at a time to use the layered product.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, please contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           Usage Alert, Electronic Thesaurus, International Hyphenators,
           and International CorrectSpell licensed from Houghton Mif-
           flin Company. Copyright 1985, 1987, 1988 by Houghton Mif-
           flin. German 1985, 1987 by Langenscheidt K.G. French in co-
           operation with Librairie Larousse. Italian 1988 by Nicola
           Zanichelli. All rights reserved. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,580,241,
           4,724,523 and 4,771,401. Canadian Pat. No. 1,203,916. The-
           saurus U.S. Pat. No. 4,724,523. English based upon The Amer-
           ican Heritage Dictionary. Thesaurus based upon Roget's II


                                      17

 



           DECwrite for VMS, Version 2.0               SPD 25.F7.02


           Thesaurus. Reproduction or disassembly of embodied computer
           programs or algorithms prohibited.

           Arts and Letters[R] clipart licensed to Digital Equipment Cor-
           poration, Maynard, Massachusetts. Copyright (c) Computer Sup-
           port Corporation 1985-1990. All rights reserved.

           Studio Advertising Art clipart licensed to Digital Equip-
           ment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts. Copyright(c) Stu-
           dio Advertising Art 1988. All rights reserved.

           [R]    Arts and Letters is a registered trademark of Com-
                puter Support Corporation.

           [R]    Lotus and 1-2-3 are registered trademarks of Lotus
                Development Corporation.

           [R]    PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Sys-
                tems, Incorporated

           [R]    Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software
                Foundation, Inc.

           [R]    Microsoft and MS-DOS are registered trademark of
                Microsoft Corporation.

           [TM] Intel is trademark of Intel Corporation.

           [TM] WordPerfect is a trademark of WordPerfect Corpora-
                tion.

           [TM] HPGL is a trademark of Hewlett-Packard Corporation.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CI, CDA, DECwrite, DECview 3D,
                DECpaint, DECpresent, DECalc, DECalc-PLUS, DECgraph,
                DECimage, DEClaser, DECchart, DECdecision, DECwin-
                dows, DDIF, DX, EVE, EDT, GOLD KEY, LiveLink, LVP16,
                MicroVAX, PrintServer, PrintServer 20, PrintServer
                40, PrintServer 40 Plus, ScriptPrinter, LN03, VMS,
                VAXstation, VAXserver, VAXELN, WPS-PLUS, VT, and VAX
                are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

                                      18
