
 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC VTX,* Version 5.1                   SPD 26.57.14

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC VTX[*] is a distributed information retrieval service that uti-
 lizes a tree structured database through which the user navigates by
 selecting choices from a menu. The content of the information consists
 of full-screen "pages" of information supplied by the Information Provider.

 Users can quickly access and peruse online information with little or
 no training. Information can be provided at multiple places in a wide-
 area network and accessed from anywhere in the network; the end-user
 does not need to know the location of the information. All informa-
 tion sources can be interlinked so the user has the impression of work-
 ing within a single enterprise-wide network of information.

 The information contained in the infobase can be prepared with WPS-PLUS,
 TPU, EDT, DECgraph, and DECslide. Documents produced with DECwrite,
 DECchart, DECpresent, or a publishing application that produces DDIF
 output (such as Interleaf[R]) can be stored in a DEC VTX infobase.

 DEC VTX provides the infrastructure for an enterprise-wide distributed
 information retrieval service.

 o  Client/server access to information from video terminals, PCs run-
    ning DOS or Microsoft[R] Windows[TM], Motif[TM] workstations (VMS and
    ULTRIX), Apple[R] Macintosh[R] PCs, IBM[R] 3270 terminals, and Digital
    Equipment Corporation's DECtalk voice synthesizer.

 o  Information may be text, graphics, images, or compound documents
    (CDA-based). It can be retrieved either through menus (videotex)
    or in the Motif clients, using hotspots (hypertext).

 ____________________

 Formerly   called VAX VTX

                               DIGITAL                      May 1992

                                                         AE-CJ20P-TE

 

 o  Contents of the customer's application databases can be retrieved
    in the same manner, through information servers developed by cus-
    tomers using the DEC VTX Application Link Utilities (VALU).

 Categories of DEC VTX Users:

 1. VTX Subscribers are the end-users of the VTX service; they navi-
    gate through the infobase, search for specific information pages,
    and create personal magazines of frequently accessed information
    pages.

 2. VTX Information Providers are responsible for providing the infor-
    mation pages that comprise the infobase(s) used by the VTX service.
    When the design of the infobase is finalized, the service provider
    assigns the page ranges the Information Provider is responsible for
    maintaining.

 3. VTX Service Providers are responsible for coordinating the vari-
    ous roles and functions required to provide a VTX service. In ad-
    dition to designing the infobase structure, the service provider
    supplies the appropriate page ranges for the information providers
    to update and chooses the most appropriate information provider tool
    to use, sets up information provider and subscriber accounts, does
    the day-to-day operating of the VTX service, and performs general
    trouble-shooting activities.

 4. VTX Application Providers are programmers that design and create
    front- and back-end applications that interact with DEC VTX. Ex-
    amples are VALU applications that prompt subscribers for informa-
    tion through the use of form pages, take the input to perform func-
    tions outside of the VTX service, and return the subscribers to their
    usual VTX environment.

 VMS Clients and Environment:

 o  VT100-series, VT200-series, VT300-series, and VT400-series termi-
    nals via DECnet, TCP/IP.

 o  VMS DECwindows Motif client via DECnet, TCP/IP (using Digital's VMS
    /ULTRIX Connection layered product.)

                                  2

 

 DOS Clients and Environment:

 o  VT300-series character-cell emulation via DECnet or asynchronous
    line communications. This allows users to access VTX directly rather
    than accessing VTX via "terminal" emulation mode.

 o  MS[R]-Windows client via DECnet.

 o  Support for Macintosh client can be purchased separately from a third-
    party vendor. Contact the local Digital Sales Office for ordering
    information.

 ULTRIX VAX and ULTRIX RISC Clients and Environment:

 o  VTX300-series, character-cell client working against a real VT ter-
    minal or an emulator such as is provided in DEC Motif via DECnet,
    TCP/IP.

 o  X/open curses character-cell emulation. In this mode, the client
    converts the DEC ANSI sequences to suitable curses calls.

 o  DEC Motif.

 Features

 o  Motif clients are integrated with LinkWorks, Digital's hyperinfor-
    mation environment, allowing links between different types of in-
    formation as well as creating personal hotspots.

 o  Point and click from Motif clients, MS-Windows client, and DOS CC
    client.

 o  Enhanced print and save capabilities - VTX pages can be printed and
    saved in different formats such as mail, DEC ANSI, LN03, and lineprinter.

 o  Communications transports - DECnet, INTERNET (TCP/IP) communica-
    tions from ULTRIX and DOS Clients, VMS Clients, and Asynchronous
    (RS232) line communications from DOS Clients.

 o  Customizable keypad to allow users to program their keypads on all
    platforms without code modifications. This eliminates the need for
    modified TSMs in many cases.

                                  3

 

 o  A "Getting Started" Infobase, which contains all the information
    a subscriber needs to use DEC VTX, and extensive online Help li-
    braries for users involved in creating, maintaining, operating, and
    enhancing a DEC VTX service.

 o  DEC VTX Workbench provides a graphical environment for the Infor-
    mation Provider to storyboard, design, build, and maintain a VTX
    infobase. The DEC VTX Workbench Information Provider can build a
    complete menu structure through a simple pictorial interface.

 o  Concentrator support for X.29 virtual devices, construction of X.25-
    based gateways, concentrator support for 3270-class terminals based
    on the use of the DECnet/SNA Gateway VMS 3270 Data Stream Program-
    ming interface and custom-written IBM applications.

 o  Context-sensitive keywords allow the use of segmented keyword files
    to allow for keyword matches based on the subscriber's current page
    context.

 o  DEC VTX allows the ALL-IN-1 user to access VTX using GOLD KEY map-
    pings for the standard VTX functions. It also allows for integra-
    tion with the ALL-IN-1 Interrupt and Scratchpad menus.

 o  Document paginator allows the DEC VTX Information Provider to pag-
    inate documents for subsequent use by VTXAPMS, VTXUPD, or DEC VTX
    Workbench. The document paginator allows users to paginate WPS-PLUS
    documents, ASCII files, and DDIF files.

 Components

 DEC VTX includes all components necessary for designing, distribut-
 ing, and accessing DEC VTX infobases and applications. The components
 are:

 o  VTX Servers and Operator Utilities

    -  DEC VTX Server (VTXSRV) handles subscriber requests for the pages
       in an infobase.


                                  4

 

    -  VTX Control Utility (VTXCTL) enables communication for the DEC
       VTX operator with the VTX server, update server, concentrator,
       DEC VTX Workbench Server, and the VTX application server to start
       and stop processes.

    -  VTX Account Control Utility (VTXACU) allows creation, modifi-
       cation, deletion, and maintenance of DEC VTX accounts.

    -  DEC VTX Workbench Server (VTXWBSRV) controls all DEC VTX Work-
       bench update access to DEC VTX infobases and performs updates
       to the infobases. It also enables the user to retrieve and ex-
       tract pages from the infobase for modification using the DEC VTX
       Workbench Graphical Interface.

    -  VTX Update Server (VTXUPDSRV) is a program that functions sim-
       ilarly to the server except that its purpose is to allow selected
       information providers, using the VTXUPD Utility, to update se-
       lected pages from a remote node.

    -  VTX Infobase Verification Utility (VTXIVU) performs infobase ver-
       ification and reports on the infobase structure. VTXIVU enables
       the user to examine the state of the infobase periodically and
       identify any discrepancies. Optionally, the verification report
       may contain a cross-reference listing of the infobase.

 o  Information Provider Tools

    -  VTX Update Utility (VTXUPD) provides full maintenance capabil-
       ity including creation, modification, and deletion of DEC VTX
       pages in the infobase. The utility offers two ways to work: menu
       mode for first-time or infrequent users, and command mode for
       experienced users. This program can operate directly on infobase
       files or access infobase files through the network using the Up-
       date Server.

    -  VTX Automatic Page Management System (VTXAPMS) is an automated
       tool that assigns/replaces symbolic page references in VTXAPMS
       input files with page numbers and dynamically builds index menus.


                                  5

 

    -  VTX Workbench Graphical Interface (VTXWBGI) allows the commu-
       nication of one or more Information Providers with the Workbench
       Server to create and maintain information in page and keyword
       files.

    -  VTX Workbench Command Language (VTXWBCL) allows the Information
       Provider to generate an infobase automatically from large or fre-
       quently updated sources, such as manuals and catalogs.

    -  Print queue services allows the Information Provider to prepare
       different format files, such as DDIF documents, WPS-PLUS doc-
       uments, and text files for use in the VTX infobase. DEC VTX takes
       advantage of Digital's standard VMS printing facilities under
       VMS and PATHWORKS for VMS. The user can specify the printer des-
       tination and options.

 o  Concentrator (CON)

    A concentrator is used to control multiple terminals on a single
    node and concentrate multiple terminal program sessions over a sin-
    gle DECnet link. In addition, a concentrator can be used to estab-
    lish certain terminals for VTX use only, so subscribers can do noth-
    ing else from that terminal.

    LAT support in the Concentrator allows Digital terminals and ALL-IN-1
    device type terminals connected to terminal servers to be assigned
    to the concentrator.

 o  External Link Interface (ELK)

    Link Interface (ELK) is a shareable image of callable routines. The
    ELK routines provide users with the ability to create custom-written
    applications with a subset of the DEC VTX protocol capabilities to
    interact with a DEC VTX server and TCP. Applications interfacing
    with ELK can be written in any VMS supported language that complies
    with the VMS calling standard. Interfacing with ELK offers the full
    advantage of a wide range of DEC VTX functions. ELK requires a thor-
    ough understanding of software development techniques used by the
    applications programmer.

                                  6

 

 o  VTX Application Service (VAS)

    The VTX Application Service (VAS) is a higher level facility that
    uses the ELK interface. The VAS component is a VMS run-time image
    used to present form, menu, and display pages from the host VTX server's
    infobase as the user-interface to one or more transactional appli-
    cations defined by the customer. The VAS component can also dynam-
    ically create menu pages that are formatted by the VTX client. These
    transactional videotex applications can be defined entirely with
    VAS or can be distributed with VAS communicating to custom-written
    external applications. Application interfaces include DECnet, P.S.I.
    X.25, and DECnet/SNA VMS APPC/LU6.2 Programming Interface.

 o  Remote Update Server Link (RUSL)

    The Remote Update Server Link (RUSL) is a shareable image of callable
    routines linked into custom-written code to create tailored update
    applications. RUSL applications can perform interactive VTX page
    and keyword extractions, updates, additions, and deletions through
    the update server. RUSL applications communicate with the update
    server via DECnet.

 o  DEC VTX Documentation

    Documentation on the installation, Service Provider, Information
    Provider, and the Application Provider are included in the Server
    Kit.

 o  Packaging

    All DEC VTX clients are included with the Server and can be copied
    to any node in the network.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configuration as specified in the System Sup-
 port Addendum (SSA 26.57.14-x).



                                  7

 

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For the DEC VTX Server for VMS to Support Any or All Clients:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection (if using INTERNET communications)

 The DEC VTX Server is a single program that serves the needs of many
 subscribers. Thus, all clients use the Server to access VTX infobases.

 PATHWORKS for VMS is required on VMS to support any DOS or MS-Windows
 clients using DECnet as the communication transport between client and
 server.

 For VMS Workstations with DECwindows Motif Interface:

 o  VMS DECwindows Motif

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection (if using INTERNET)

 For ULTRIX VAX and ULTRIX RISC Character Cell Clients:

 o  ULTRIX Operating System

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection

    DEC VTX requires the following ULTRIX software subsets to be loaded
    on the system where DEC VTX is installed:

    -  UDTBASE420 (for RISC) or ULTBASE420 (for VAX), which is named
       "ULTRIX Base System"

    -  UDTINET420 (for RISC) or ULTINET420 (for VAX), which is named
       "TCP/IP Networking Utilities"

                                  8

 

 For ULTRIX VAX and ULTRIX RISC Workstations with DEC Motif[TM] Inter-
 face:

 o  DEC Motif

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection

 For DOS Character Cell Client on the PC:

 o  MS-DOS, PC-DOS, or COMPAQ-DOS Operating System

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS (except when using the asynchronous line commu-
    nication support) for the VTX DOS character cell client

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS

 For MS-Windows Client on the PC:

 o  MS-Windows

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS

 Other VMS Components:

 o  VMS Operating System

                                  9

 

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.57.14-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows Motif.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Operation of this product requires a DEC VTX Server and at least one
 DEC VTX client. All DEC VTX clients are included with the Server and
 may be copied to any node in the network. One exception is the Mac-
 intosh client, which is available through a third-party vendor. Re-
 fer to the local Digital Sales Representative for ordering informa-
 tion.

 Software Licenses: QL-031A*-**
 Software Media: QA-031A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-031AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-031A*-**

 The media kit includes media and documentation for the server, all clients,
 information providers, and VALU.

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's Licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support:

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use and Concurrent Use basis.

 Each Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time to use
 the layered product.

                                 10

 

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx), the
 License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set, the ULTRIX Operating System Software Product Descrip-
 tion (SPD 26.40.xx), or the License Management Facility manual of the
 ULTRIX Operating System documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 [R]  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
      chines Corporation.

 [R]  Apple and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Com-
      puter, Inc.

 [R]  MS, MS-DOS, and Microsoft are registered trademarks of Mi-
      crosoft Corporation.

 [R]  COMPAQ is a registered trademark of COMPAQ Computer Corpora-
      tion.

 [R]  Interleaf is a registered trademark of Interleaf, Inc.

 [R]  Sony is a registered trademark of Sony Corporation.

 [TM] Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM] Motif is a trademark of Open Software Foundation, Inc.

                                 11

 


 [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, CI, DEC, DEC VTX, DECchart, DECgraph,
      DECnet, DECpresent, DECserver, DECslide, DECstation, DECsystem,
      DECtalk, DECwindows, DECwrite, EDT, LAT, LinkWorks, LN03, Mi-
      croVAX, PATHWORKS, Rainbow, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft,
      VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT100, VT300, and WPS/PLUS are
      trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

































                                 12

