 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2  SPD 26.20.10

           DESCRIPTION

           DEC GKS (Graphical Kernal System) for VMS provides the ap-
           plication programmer with a single interface to a variety
           of graphic devices. DEC GKS for VMS is a development tool
           that application programmers can use to produce computer gen-
           erated pictures. DEC GKS for VMS is a solid base for portable,
           device-independent two-dimensional graphics application de-
           velopment.

           DEC GKS for VMS is a subroutine library packaged as a set
           of VMS shareable images, which implements the ISO (ISO 7942)
           and ANSI (ANSI X3.124-1985) GKS standard for two-dimensional
           (2D) device-independent graphics. DEC GKS for VMS conforms
           to level 2c of the GKS standard which provides full output
           capabilities, including workstation independent segment stor-
           age (level 2), and full input capabilities (synchronous and
           asynchronous input (level c)). DEC GKS for VMS supports DECwin-
           dows.

           Features

           Viewing Operations

           DEC GKS for VMS allows the user to define the working co-
           ordinate system (world coordinates). World coordinates can
           have any scale. For example, one application might have a
           maximum range from 0 to 1000.0 while another application might
           limit the range from 0.01 to 0.1.



                                    DIGITAL           September 1991

                                                         AE-BP36K-TE

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10


           The user can also control multiple simultaneous views of the
           same picture on separate display surfaces, as well as the
           position of the picture on the surface. For example, one ap-
           plication program can display a map of the United States on
           a VT340 and at the same time display an enlarged section of
           the map (for example, the New England states) on an LVP16
           Pen Plotter.

           GKS Metafile

           DEC GKS for VMS provides an interface to sequential files,
           the ISO and ANSI suggested GKS Metafile (GKSM) for filing
           graphical information. The metafiles can be used for the fol-
           lowing purposes:

           o  Storing graphical information in a device-independent for-
              mat

           o  Transporting graphical information between systems with
              compatible versions of GKS

           o  Transporting graphical information from one DEC GKS for
              VMS application to another

           o  Storing accompanying nongraphical information

           Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM) Output

           DEC GKS for VMS provides support for storing information us-
           ing the Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM). CGM is an approved
           ANSI standard format (ANSI X3.122-1986). DEC GKS for VMS sup-
           ports CGM output for the following formats:

              Clear Text Encoding - Graphical output data stored in the
              clear text format is easily created, viewed, and modi-
              fied using a common text editor. It is also a suitable
              format for transferring graphical output data through net-
              works that only support the transfer of a text file.



                                       2

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10


              Character Encoding - Graphical output data is typically
              stored in the character format for minimal file size. Data
              stored in this format is particularly suitable for trans-
              fer through networks that cannot support binary trans-
              fers.

              Binary Encoding - Graphical output data stored in binary
              format is very compact and the fastest to read and write.
              However, it is the least suitable for transmission over
              communication lines as all 8 bits in each byte are mean-
              ingful.

           DDIF Output

           DEC GKS for VMS provides support for storing two-dimensional
           views of three-dimensional objects encoded in Digital's Doc-
           ument Interchange Format (DDIF). Views stored in DDIF can
           be processed by applications that conform to Digital's Com-
           pound Document Architecture.

           DECwindows

           DEC GKS for VMS provides support for VMS DECwindows and VMS
           DECwindows Motif®.

           Escape Feature

           DEC GKS for VMS provides an escape mechanism that allows the
           application programmer to access device capabilities not de-
           fined in the GKS standard. For example, an ESCAPE function
           is defined that activates the hardcopy feature of a VT125
           raster graphics terminal.

           Character Sets

           DEC GKS for VMS provides a series of stroke precision char-
           acter fonts. These character fonts were originally digitized
           by Dr. Allen V. Hershey of the Naval Surface Weapons Lab-
           oratory and supplied to Digital by the National Bureau of
           Standards.

                                       3

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10


           DEC GKS for VMS also provides text support for the native
           character set(s) of the supported graphical devices.

           Language Binding

           DEC GKS for VMS functions can be accessed by three sets of
           subroutine calls.

           o  An interface that conforms to the ANSI standard (ANSI X3.124.1-
              1985) and ISO (DIS 8651/1) FORTRAN binding to GKS.

           o  A C binding interface that conforms to the proposed C lan-
              guage binding standard.

              The FORTRAN and C binding interfaces allow users to trans-
              port GKS applications that are written in FORTRAN or C
              across heterogeneous operating systems with conforming
              implementations of the FORTRAN or C bindings and GKS. Calls
              to the C language binding cannot be mixed with calls to
              the other language bindings in the same application.

           o  A VMS-specific interface that follows the standard VMS
              calling conventions and is callable by many different lan-
              guages.

           Graphic Handlers

           DEC GKS for VMS provides support for a wide variety of Dig-
           ital and non-Digital graphics devices. In addition, DEC GKS
           for VMS provides the information necessary for users to de-
           velop their own graphic device handlers for devices that DEC
           GKS for VMS does not support. Device handlers can be devel-
           oped in VAX FORTRAN, VAX C, and VAX Pascal.

           Output Functions






                                       4

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10



           Segments   DEC GKS for VMS provides a set of functions
                      for the creation, manipulation, and deletion
                      of stored groups of output primitives called
                      segments.
           Polyline   Draws one or more connected line segments.
           Polymarker Draws one or more symbols that mark signifi-
                      cant points in a picture.
           Text       Draws any character string. Characters can be
                      displayed in a variety of fonts and orienta-
                      tions.
           Fill       Draws a polygonal area, which can be hollow or
           Area       filled with a uniform color, a pattern, or a
                      hatch style.
           Cell       Draws a rectangular image, specified by a
           Array      two-dimensional array of picture elements.
           GeneralizedAllows access to drawing capabilities of
           Drawing    graphics devices that are not used by the
           Prim-      functions listed above. Circles and arcs are
           itive      two GDPs commonly used.
           (GDP)

           Attributes

           Each output function has an associated set of attributes that
           control the appearance of the output. Attributes can be de-
           fined in groups, called bundles, or individually. Examples
           of attributes for polyline are:

           Line       Controls the style of a line. For example,
           Type       lines can be dotted or dashed.
           Line       Controls the width of the line.
           Width








                                       5

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10



           Line       Color selection is performed by selecting an
           Color      index into a table containing the red, green,
                      and blue intensities required to define a
                      particular color on color devices.

           Input Functions

           DEC GKS for VMS supports synchronous and asynchronous in-
           put. The following six classes of input data are supported.

           Locator    Returns a point within the user's world coor-
                      dinate system
           Stroke     Returns a series of points within the user's
                      world coordinate system
           Valuator   Returns a single real value within a specified
                      range
           Choice     Returns a single non-negative integer within a
                      specified range
           String     Returns a string of characters
           Pick       Returns a segment name and pick identifier

           Control Functions

           DEC GKS for VMS provides control functions for management
           of the picture process, including GKS initialization and ter-
           mination, the opening and closing of logical graphical de-
           vices, and the control of the display surface.

           Inquiry Functions

           DEC GKS for VMS provides a complete set of inquiry functions
           that aid in developing modular, device-independent programs.

           DEC GKS for VMS Run-Time Only License

           Since DEC GKS for VMS is a graphics application development
           tool, Digital provides a Run-Time Only License for running
           graphics applications that were developed using DEC GKS for


                                       6

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10


           VMS graphics. This license is offered at a substantially re-
           duced cost per CPU. The DEC GKS for VMS Run-Time Only Li-
           cense does not allow the user to create new applications,
           but rather allows execution of applications that were pre-
           viously developed on a CPU where the full GKS product had
           been installed under a Single-Use License Option.


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.20.10-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

           VMS Operating System

           For Workstations Running VWS:

           VMS Operating System
           VMS Workstation Software

           For Workstations Running DECwindows:

           VMS Operating System (and necessary components
              of VMS DECwindows)

           or

           VMS Operating System (and necessary components
              of VMS DECwindows Motif)

           *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.20.10-x) for
              availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
              software and for information regarding components of VMS
              DECwindows.



                                       7

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10


           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Development:

           Software Licenses: QL-810A*-**
           Software Media: QA-810A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-810AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-810A*-**

           Run-Time Only:

           Software Licenses: QL-811A*-**
           Software Media: QA-811A*-**
           Software Product Services: QT-811A*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support:

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

           This layered product offers a Personal Use license. Each Per-
           sonal Use license allows one identified individual to use
           the layered product.

           This layered product offers a Concurrent Use license. Each
           Concurrent Use license allows any one individual at a time
           to use the layered product.

                                       8

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10


           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.


           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®   Apple and LaserWriter are registered trademarks of
               Apple Computer, Inc.

           ®   Hewlett-Packard, HP, and HPGL are registered trade-
               marks of Hewlett-Packard Company.

           ®   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.

           ®   TEKTRONIX and Tek are registered trademarks of Tek-
               tronix, Inc.

           ®   Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software
               Foundation, Inc.

           [TM]LASERGRAPHICS MPS-200 is a trademark of Laser Graph-
               ics, Inc.







                                       9

 



           DEC GKS for VMS, Version 4.2                SPD 26.20.10



           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, Companion, DEC, DECwindows, DE-
               Claser, DECstation, DECsystem, LA, LA50, LA75, LN03,
               LN03 ScriptPrinter, LVP16, TK, MicroVAX, ReGIS, VAX,
               VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX BLISS-32, VAX C, VAX COBOL,
               VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal, VAX PL/I, VAXcluster, VAXft,
               VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT330, and VT340 are
               trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

































                                      10
