 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC Realtime Integrator for VMS, Version 3.0     SPD
 28.30.09

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC Realtime Integrator for VMS is an icon-based, graphical program-
 ming environment that allows the rapid development of realtime data
 acquisition and test applications. Instead of using a conventional pro-
 gramming language, users create and run realtime data acquisition and
 IEEE-488 and RS-232 instrument control applications by drawing them
 graphically as flow diagrams.

 Each DEC Realtime Integrator icon represents a function, such as an
 analog or digital input, an arithmetic operation, or a logical func-
 tion. The application is built by using the point-and-click method now
 standard in graphical user interfaces. By pointing and clicking the
 mouse, icons are moved from the libraries to the worksurface and then
 connected to other icons with either data flow or signal flow lines.
 Once the icons have been set up, the application is ready to run.

 Important Note to Users of VAXlab Software Library

    DEC Realtime Integrator is based upon a predecessor product - VAXlab
    Software Library (VSL). In contrast to DEC Realtime Integrator's
    icon-based, graphical programming approach, VAXlab Software Library
    is a collection of subroutine libraries that developers can pro-
    gram with using a higher-level language (e.g., C, Pascal, FORTRAN).
    The VSL programming libraries - LIO, LGP, and LSP - are included
    as part of the DEC Realtime Integrator Runtime product for VMS V3.0,
    as outlined in the ORDERING INFORMATION section of this document.
    For completeness, however, a functional description of the LIO, LGP,
    and LSP subroutines is included in this Software Product Descrip-
    tion.

                               DIGITAL                     June 1992

                                                         AE-PEHME-TE

 

 The DEC Realtime Integrator worksurface acts as a graphical editor,
 enabling users to move, copy, delete, add, cut, and paste icons rep-
 resenting devices and sections of code. This allows the user to cre-
 ate and change applications more quickly than with traditional pro-
 gramming languages.

 Each icon has a set-up menu that allows customization of its function
 for the application. Once built, the application can be saved and re-
 stored without repeating the set-up operations. Since the configura-
 tion is saved as an ASCII text file, it can be mailed to any other sys-
 tem running DEC Realtime Integrator and restored there. This feature
 allows users to build an application on a VMS system and transport it
 to an ULTRIX system (running the ULTRIX version of DEC Realtime In-
 tegrator) or vice versa, and run it with few modifications.

 By putting icons together and shrinking them to form a single icon,
 macros can be built and manipulated like any other individual icon.
 This feature allows the user to create higher order representations
 of an application from basic building blocks. To edit or modify the
 contents of any created macro, a separate macro editing window is pro-
 vided.

 For any DEC Realtime Integrator application, a control panel can be
 created using the data display and user input icons. The control panel
 is a simple user interface representing an instrument control panel
 that novice users and non-programmers can use to interact with the ap-
 plication. Little knowledge of DEC Realtime Integrator is required to
 run an application using the control panel. Building the control panel
 requires only selecting the appropriate icons and positioning the user
 input devices on the control panel surface. Control panel objects may
 be easily repositioned within the window by selecting and moving the
 objects with the mouse.

 Every application has two conceptual views: a data flow view and a sig-
 nal flow view. DEC Realtime Integrator allows users to switch between
 both views with the click of a mouse button. In the data flow view,
 the connections between icons represent the flow of data through the
 application. The signal flow view, by comparison, displays the appli-
 cation's logic structure. The combination of data flow and signal flow

                                  2

 

 views uniquely describes the data relationships and execution flow of
 all applications built using the drawing worksurface.

 Context-sensitive, on-line Help makes the software environment easy
 to learn. Using the point-and-click method, Help is provided on the
 specific icon selected.

 DEC Realtime Integrator was designed to simplify realtime instrument
 control (IEEE-488, RS-232, VXI). The user directly programs the in-
 strument and needs no knowledge of the IEEE-488 bus itself. String ma-
 nipulation and other support icons simplify the construction of com-
 mand strings. The service request (SRQ) can be detected as a signal
 in the signal flow view, and the SRQ status byte is available as data
 in the data flow view. These mechanisms allow instrument events to be
 detected and serviced with the same graphical programming techniques
 used to create the rest of the application.

 DEC Realtime Integrator allows users to monitor alpha-numeric data as
 it is being collected and display it as a line plot, point plot, or
 scrolling text. The user can insert the display icons in any path of
 the data flow diagram and use them as a probe to trace the data as it
 flows through the application. In addition to monitoring the data, the
 user can also generate PostScript® files of the plots for hardcopy records.

 In addition to the traditional mathematical and trigonometric oper-
 ations, there are icons to perform noise filtering, scaling, multi-
 plexing, or signal processing functions such as Fast Fourier Trans-
 formations (FFTs) and power spectrum analysis. A range check icon al-
 lows the user to determine if a data value falls outside a given range
 and take corrective action. Simple statistical results may also be cal-
 culated on an array of values such as mean, median, min/max, sum, and
 standard deviation.

 Time generation functions allow the user to trigger applications or
 events using either a realtime clock or a system clock. A time stamp
 can also be put on each data value as it is stored to a file.




                                  3

 

 DEC Realtime Integrator capabilities may also be extended by user-developed
 icons. With the DEC Realtime Integrator System option or Icon Devel-
 opment option (see ORDERING INFORMATION for more details) users can
 create and modify icons by following a template and detailed instruc-
 tions. Since all icons are modular functions, the individually cre-
 ated icons can be used in all future applications, or shared between
 different development environments.

 New Features of DEC Realtime Integrator, Version 3.0

 o  Auto Data Type Conversion: DEC Realtime Integrator now converts data
    types automatically. The user no longer has to use the Converter
    icon to convert data types, except for conversion to/from fixed-
    length ASCII formats or ASCII delimited by a character other than
    line feed. For migration purposes between product versions, the Con-
    verter icon is still included as a standard kit component.

 o  DECnet and TCP/IP Communication: Applications distributed across
    multiple computing systems can share data directly with each other
    through DECnet or TCP/IP communication.

 o  Macro Editing: A new macro editing facility has been added so users
    can edit icon macros in a separate editing window.

 o  Icon and Line Colors: Different colors for individual icons and lines
    on the drawing worksurface can be assigned. Use of colors can be
    helpful to provide a visual cue to groups or collections of icons.

 o  Dynamic Icon Naming: Each icon on the worksurface may now be set
    to have its own custom name. A new "Icon Name" file has been added
    to the setup dialog boxes.

 o  Multiple Control Panels: It is now possible to have multiple con-
    trol panels in one application. Application developers can spec-
    ify which control panel a given display widget will reside within.
    This feature allows developers to build more sophisticated user in-
    terfaces using multiple windows.



                                  4

 

 o  Control Panel Editing: All display widgets (pushbuttons, graphs,
    sliders, etc.) may now be repositioned on the control panel via click
    and drag with the mouse.

 o  Data Path Priorities: Developers may now specify a path priority
    of High, Medium, or Low on the connection between two or more icons.
    This feature offers developers more precise control on the execu-
    tion order of different segments of their application, when real-
    time performance is an issue.

 o  Examine Data: New to the debug utility, the Examine Data button brings
    up the Examine Data window, which lets users examine all the data
    points in a single buffer.

 o  Global Variables: Global variables can be used to specify set-up
    variables that are global to an entire application. With this pow-
    erful facility, a global variable may be changed dynamically by an
    application, and the change reflected within multiple icons through-
    out the application.

 o  Addition of User-defined Icon Libraries: Users can now define their
    own icon library and add it to standard DEC Realtime Integrator icon
    libraries.

 o  Print On-line Help: An ASCII file with the contents of the DEC Re-
    altime Integrator on-line Help facility is now included with the
    product kit.

 o  ASCII Report Generator: Allows the quick creation of a table-and-
    row-based ASCII report file, where test results can be archived for
    later display or printing. Up to 10 column headers may be assigned
    (i.e., 10 variables reported), with a user-defined report header.

 o  Record Operations: A new record data format allows applications to
    pass combined numerical and ASCII-based data between icons. As one
    example, this feature allows RS-232-based instruments to pass back
    complete report results to an application, including date, time,
    and test parameters, as well as numerical test results.


                                  5

 

 o  Expanded Text Manipulation: Allows users to search and extract tex-
    tual information from instrument reports and data tables. Used most
    typically with IEEE-488 and RS-232 instruments, numerical and ASCII
    information may be extracted from instrument reports and passed along
    to other functions for processing, display, and archiving.

 o  New Display Icons: Extended Scope, Analog Meter, Digital Meter, Con-
    trol Panel Bitmaps. Improved display functions make it simpler to
    view numerical data once acquired. The extended scope includes a
    sample and hold capability, on-screen cursor positioning, and dy-
    namic X and Y axis scaling. New digital and analog meters offer a
    software front panel display similar to actual IEEE-488-based in-
    struments. Control panel bitmaps allow application developers to
    include their own X Windows[TM] pixel bitmap to the control panel,
    as either the foreground or background overlay.

 o  Application Icon: Allows a DEC Realtime Integrator application to
    be segmented into separate subapplications, executing in the same
    process context, but under the control of a master application. This
    gives application developers the flexibility of building large hi-
    erarchical systems where application components may be loaded and
    unloaded dynamically, under program or user control.

 VAXlab Subroutine Libraries - LIO, LGP, LSP

 DEC Realtime Integrator contains the functionality of its predeces-
 sor product, VAXlab Software Library, utilizing the subroutine libraries
 Laboratory Input/Output (LIO), Laboratory Signal Processing (LSP), and
 Laboratory Graphics Package (LGP) of VAXlab Software Library (VSL).

 The LIO subroutines permit the user to:

 o  Attach a device and set it up for QIO, connect-to-interrupt I/O,
    or mapped I/O

 o  Specify and verify the setup parameters of an I/O device

 o  Release a buffer from the user queue to the device queue

 o  Read a buffer with data from a device

                                  6

 

 o  Write a buffer of data to the device

 o  Obtain a buffer from a device queue and put it in the user queue

 o  Enqueue multiple buffers to a device for continuous data transfer

 o  Detach a device and shut down the I/O process in an orderly fash-
    ion

 In addition, the LIO subroutines have the capability to control the
 Preston Scientific GMAD- and EMAD-series analog input subsystems when
 they are interfaced to the Q-bus via the DRQ3B or DRV11-WA.

 The LSP subroutines perform data format translation, Fast Fourier Trans-
 formations, signal filtering, interval histogramming, and thermocou-
 ple voltage-to-temperature conversions. Routines are also included to
 calculate power spectra, cross-correlations, auto-correlations, and
 phase angle and modulus spectra.

 The Fourier transform routines handle both real and complex data in
 one or two dimensions in both the forward and inverse directions. Fil-
 tering algorithms include simple polynomial filtering, nonrecursive
 filtering, and spectral windowing.

 The LGP subroutines are used to plot data in the form of 2-D, 3-D, his-
 togram, contour, and realtime plots. Under a DECwindows environment,
 the computations may be done on a client while graphics are displayed
 on a workstation server. The graphs can be output as DDIF files for
 use with other applications, such as DECwrite.

 The LGP subroutines allow the user to:

 o  Create a 2-D linear/logarithmic axis system and plot an array

 o  Update a 2-D plot by erasing old data and adding new data

 o  Plot additional data sets on a previously defined graph

 o  Plot a previously stored metafile

 o  Plot a point in one of 10 geometric shapes

 o  Print the screen on an attached printer

                                  7

 

 o  Produce a hard copy of the plot displayed on the screen

 o  Create a 2-D contour projection

 o  Add an additional contour chart to an existing one

 o  Create a shaded contour projection

 o  Draw a histogram

 o  Write a text string to a specified location on a plot

 o  Plot standard deviation markers on data points

 o  Plot a 3-D array with hidden line removal

 o  Set up the axis system for a 3-D graph

 o  Clear all or part of a window

 o  Obtain the coordinates of a cursor or input device

 o  Compute the autoscaling parameters for linear and logarithmic plots

 o  Fit a cubic spline to a set of data points

 o  Return the value selected from a menu

 o  Prompt the user for a user string

 o  Collect a series of x-y pairs from an input device

 o  Collect a series of values with a specified range from a valuator
    type input device

 In addition, users can add support for any foreign device for which
 a GKS handler exists.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 28.30.09-x).

                                  8

 

 OPTIONAL HARDWARE

 o  IEZ11

 DEC Realtime Integrator for VMS supports the IEZ11, which is a SCSI
 to IEEE-488 bus-controller for Digital workstations. DEC Realtime In-
 tegrator for VMS manages all SCSI and IEEE-488 bus interactions, al-
 lowing the user to communicate directly with the instruments. Refer
 to the System Support Addendum for DEC IEZ11 Class Dirver (31.41.XX.x)
 for additional information on supported platforms for this product.

 o  VAXBI Clock (Simpact RTC01)

 A programmable realtime clock for VAXBI bus systems is sold by Sim-
 pact Associates under the product name of RTC01. The DEC Realtime In-
 tegrator Runtime product includes the software driver for the RTC01
 for VAXBI systems. For more information on the RTC01 clock, contact
 Simpact Associates Inc. at 9210 Sky Park Court, San Diego CA 92123 or
 telephone (619) 565-4112.

 o  Q-bus Devices

 DEC Realtime Integrator for VMS supports the following Q-bus devices.
 Some additional Q-bus devices are supported only via the LIO subrou-
 tine library calls (indicated by *).

    IEQ11
    ADQ32
    ADV11 (without continuous DMA)
    AAV11
    KWV11C
    DRQ3B
    * ADV11 (with continuous DMA)
    * AXV11
    * DRV11
    * DRV11W




                                  9

 

 Note: Use of the DRQ3B in VAX 4000 systems is only supported when us-
 ing block mode. Because Q-bus saturation in these systems can result
 in device timeouts in other devices, the total Q-bus throughput should
 not exceed 2.5 Mbytes/second. Applications developed on VAX 4000 sys-
 tems containing multiple DRQ3Bs and/or other Q-bus options should not
 exceed this composite data rate.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):
 VMS Operating System

 For Workstations Running VWS:

 (Required to use the LIO realtime plotting device. The DEC Realtime
 Integrator graphical drawing editor is not available to customers who
 choose the VWS windowing system.)

 VMS Operating System
 VMS Workstation Software

 For Workstations Running DECwindows:

 (Required to use the icon-based user interface.)

 VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)
 DEC GKS for VMS
 VAX C (Required if the user is developing custom icons)

 The DRB32 VMS Drivers are a prerequisite for LIO support of the DRB32
 and DRB32W devices and I/O subsystems that interface to the VAXBI through
 the DRB32 and DRB32W.

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 28.30.09-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.




                                 10

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 DEC Realtime Integrator V3.0 offers flexible packaging options. Ver-
 sions 2.0 and 2.1 of DEC Realtime Integrator for VMS offered two op-
 tions: a single-user development license, which enabled a developer
 to design, edit, and run complete realtime applications on any VAXs-
 tation or DECwindows terminal; and a runtime license, which was strictly
 for running applications previously built with a development license.

 Version 3.0 of DEC Realtime Integrator is available in four product
 variations:

 Development System Option

 This is the same as the previous development license. Combining all
 of the capabilities included in the three licenses detailed below, it
 is ideal for users who need full development and deployment capabil-
 ity.

 Application Development Option

 This provides the DEC Realtime Integrator drawing worksurface and icon
 libraries for creating and running applications graphically; however,
 support for building new icons is not included. With this license, ap-
 plication developers may use icons from three sources: 1) icons in-
 cluded with DEC Realtime Integrator, 2) icons sold separately by third
 parties, or 3) icons developed with a development system license or
 icon development license. An application development license is the
 appropriate choice for engineers and programmers who want to develop
 their application using DEC Realtime Integrator's graphical user in-
 terface, but do not need to build custom icons.









                                 11

 

 Icon Development Option

 This provides the tools needed to add new icons into the DEC Realtime
 Integrator icon libraries. It is the appropriate product for program-
 mers who need to add their own capabilities to DEC Realtime Integra-
 tor. As examples, icon developers may want to support custom hardware
 devices or protect their investment in previously written code by in-
 cluding it in a DEC Realtime Integrator icon. With an icon develop-
 ment license, programmers may extend DEC Realtime Integrator with new
 features that they can simply add themselves.

 Runtime Option

 This is identical to the runtime license of previous versions. DEC Re-
 altime Integrator runtime licenses support both applications built with
 the predecessor product - VAXlab Software Library (LIO, LSP, LGP) -
 as well as applications built with any DEC Realtime Integrator de-
 velopment license. In both cases, runtime licenses provide a cost-effective
 way for applications that have already been developed to be run on mul-
 tiple execution systems.

 DEC Realtime Integrator development licenses are offered as either personal-
 use or capacity-based licenses. Runtime licenses are offered as capacity-
 based only. Personal-use licenses are fixed price per user, whereas
 capacity-based licenses offer unlimited number of users with pricing
 relative to the performance of the system.

 DEC Realtime Integrator Development System for VMS, V3.0

 Software Licenses:

    Personal: QL-YWQAA-2B
    Capacity: QL-YWQA9-J*

 Software Media & Documentation: QA-YWQAA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-YWQAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YWQA*-**



                                 12

 

 DEC Realtime Integrator Application Development for VMS, V3.0

 Software Licenses:

    Personal: QL-MFEAA-2B
    Capacity: QL-MFEA9-J*

 Software Media & Documentation: QA-MFEAA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-MFEAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-MFEA*-**

 DEC Realtime Integrator Icon Development for VMS, V3.0

 Software Licenses:

    Personal: QL-MFFAA-2B
    Capacity: QL-MFFA9-J*

 Software Media & Documentation: QA-MFFAA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-MFFAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-MFFA*-**

 DEC Realtime Integrator Runtime for VMS, V3.0

 Software Licenses: QL-B15A9-J* (Capacity only)
 Software Product Services: QT-B15A*-**

 Runtime Media and Documentation Kit Variants

 DEC Realtime Integrator Runtime Media kits also contain the subrou-
 tine libraries of the predecessor product, VAXlab Software Library.
 Users may specify which documentation set they wish to have included
 - either Variant A for the Standard Runtime Documentation or Variant
 B for the VAXlab Subroutine Library programming manuals for LIO, LGP,
 and LSP.

 Standard (Variant A) documentation kits include an Installation Guide
 and the Application Developers Guide for DEC Realtime Integrator's iconic
 programming environment.

                                 13

 

 VSL (Variant B) documentation kits include an Installation Guide and
 the four VSL programming manuals:

 o  Getting Started with the Subroutine Libraries

 o  LSP Reference Manual

 o  LGP Reference Manual

 o  LIO Reference Manual

 Standard Runtime Kits (Variant A)

 Software Media & Documentation: QA-B15AA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-B15AA-GZ

 VAXlab Software Library Kits (Variant B)

 Software Media & Documentation: QA-B15AB-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-B15AB-GZ

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on licenses, ser-
    vices, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support:

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on a Single Use or on a
 CPU Capacity basis.



                                 14

 

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 

 ®  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

 ®  HP is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.

 ®  TEKTRONIX is a registered trademark of Tektronix, Inc.

 [TM]Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, BI, CI, DDIF, DEC, DEC GKS, DECnet, DECwin-
    dows, DECwrite, DRB32, LA, LA50, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LVP16, Mi-
    croVAX, Q-bus, RA, TK, ULTRIX, UNIBUS, VAX, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC,
    VAX C, VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal, VAXBI, VAXcluster, VAXft,
    VAXlab, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT330, VT340, and VT1000
    are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.









                                 15
