 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DEC VTX Text Retrieval System, Version 1.0   SPD SPD 49.01.01

 DESCRIPTION

 DEC VTX Text Retrieval System is a distributed document filing and re-
 trieval system. The Server runs on the VMS Operating System while the
 clients run on any VMS, ULTRIX, Microsoft[R] Windows[TM], or MS[R]-DOS[R]
 system, with either DECnet or TCP/IP as the transport to the Server.
 The MS-Windows client runs on DECnet only.

 The VTX Text Retrieval System extends the storage retrieval capabil-
 ities of DEC VTX to include full indexing of existing ISO-1 (ANSI) doc-
 uments and retrieval of these documents using "full text search".

 Users can quickly access and peruse online information with little or
 no training. Information can be provided at multiple places in a wide-
 area network and accessed from anywhere in the network; the end-user
 does not need to know the location of the information. All informa-
 tion sources can be interlinked so the user has the impression of work-
 ing within a single enterprise-wide network of information.

 The information contained in the infobase can be prepared with WPS-PLUS,
 TPU, EDT, DECgraph, and DECslide. Documents produced with DECwrite,
 DECchart, DECpresent, or a publishing application that produces DDIF
 output (such as Interleaf[R]) can be stored in the infobase.

 DEC VTX Text Retrieval System provides the infrastructure for an enterprise-
 wide distributed text retrieval system.

 o  Client/server access to information from video terminals, PCs run-
    ning DOS or Microsoft Windows, Motif[TM] workstations (VMS and UL-
    TRIX), Apple[R] Macintosh[R] PCs, IBM[R] 3270 terminals, and Digital Equip-
    ment Corporation's DECtalk voice synthesizer.

                               DIGITAL                      May 1992

                                                         AE-PNWBB-TE

 

 o  Information may be text, graphics, images, or compound documents
    (CDA-based).

 Information can be retrieved by a variety of query techniques includ-
 ing:

    o  Search by words, phrases, and stems.

    o  Wildcarding of single or multiple characters.

    o  Boolean expressions (AND, OR, NOT).

    o  Proximity and Field searching ("DEC AND VAX IN SENTENCE").

    o  Date range searches (Document created before or after a spec-
       ified date).

    o  Ability to select indexes to search, including indexes not vis-
       ible by default.

    o  Documents are presented with search terms highlighted in con-
       text (KWIC).

    o  Partial results are returned while long queries continue.

    o  Query Menus: Menu choices can point to Query pages which can be
       useful pre-defined queries.

    o  Ability to override default stemming by requesting "exact match".

    o  Runaway query protection.

    o  Through videotex menus.

    o  By using hotspots in the Motif clients (hypertext).

    o  Contents of the customer's application databases can be retrieved
       in the same manner, through information servers developed by cus-
       tomers using the DEC VTX Application Link Utilities (VALU).

 Categories of DEC VTX Text Retrieval System Users:

 1. Subscribers are the end-users of the VTX Text Retrieval System ser-
    vice; they navigate through the infobase, search for specific in-
    formation pages, and create personal magazines of frequently ac-
    cessed information pages.

                                  2

 

 2. Information Providers are responsible for providing the informa-
    tion pages that comprise the infobase(s) used by the VTX Text Re-
    trieval System. When the design of the infobase is finalized, the
    service provider assigns the page ranges that the Information Provider
    is responsible for maintaining.

 3. Service Providers are responsible for coordinating the various roles
    and functions required to provide a VTX Text Retrieval System. In
    addition to designing the infobase structure, the service provider
    supplies the appropriate page ranges for the information providers
    to update and chooses the most appropriate information provider tool
    to use, sets up information provider and subscriber accounts, does
    the day-to-day operating of the VTX Text Retrieval System, and per-
    forms general trouble-shooting activities.

 4. Application Providers are programmers that design and create front-
    and back-end applications that interact with DEC VTX Text Retrieval
    System. Examples are VALU applications that prompt subscribers for
    information through the use of form pages, take the input to per-
    form functions outside of the VTX Text Retrieval System, and re-
    turn the subscribers to the usual VTX Text Retrieval System envi-
    ronment.

 VMS Clients and Environment:

 o  VT100-series, VT200-series, VT300-series, and VT400-series termi-
    nals via DECnet, TCP/IP (using Digital's VMS/ULTRIX Connection lay-
    ered product).

 o  VMS DECwindows Motif client via DECnet, TCP/IP (using Digital's VMS
    /ULTRIX Connection layered product).

 DOS Clients and Environment:

 o  VT300-series character-cell emulation via DECnet or asynchronous
    line communications. This allows users to access VTX directly rather
    than accessing VTX via "terminal" emulation mode.

 o  MS-Windows client via DECnet.

                                  3

 

 o  Support for Macintosh clients can be purchased separately from a
    third-party vendor. Refer to the local Digital Sales Representa-
    tive for ordering information.

 ULTRIX VAX and ULTRIX RISC Clients and Environment:

 o  VTX300-series, character-cell client working against a real VT ter-
    minal or an emulator such as is provided in DEC Motif via DECnet,
    TCP/IP.

 o  X/open curses character-cell emulation. In this mode, the client
    converts the DEC ANSI sequences to suitable curses calls.

 o  DEC Motif.

 Features

 o  Motif clients are integrated with LinkWorks, Digital's hyperinfor-
    mation environment, allowing links between different types of in-
    formation as well as creating personal hotspots.

 o  Point and click from Motif clients, MS-Windows client, and DOS CC
    client.

 o  Enhanced print and save capabilities - VTX pages can be printed and
    saved in several different formats such as mail, DEC ANSI, LN03,
    and lineprinter.

 o  Communications transports - DECnet, INTERNET (TCP/IP) communica-
    tions from ULTRIX and DOS Clients, VMS Clients, and Asynchronous
    (RS232) line communications from DOS Clients.

 o  Customizable keypad to allow users to program their keypads on all
    platforms without code modifications. This eliminates the need for
    modified TSMs in many cases.

 o  A "Getting Started" Infobase which contains the information a sub-
    scriber needs to use DEC VTX Text Retrieval System and extensive
    online Help libraries for users involved in creating, maintaining,
    operating, and enhancing a DEC VTX Text Retrieval System.

                                  4

 

 o  Concentrator support for X.29 virtual devices, construction of X.25-
    based gateways, concentrator support for 3270-class terminals based
    on the use of the DECnet/SNA Gateway VMS 3270 Data Stream Program-
    ming interface and custom-written IBM applications.

 o  Context-sensitive keywords allow the use of segmented keyword files
    to allow for keyword matches based on the subscriber's current page
    context.

 o  DEC VTX Text Retrieval System allows the ALL-IN-1 user to access
    VTX Text Retrieval System using GOLD KEY mappings for the standard
    VTX Text Retrieval System functions. It also allows for integra-
    tion with the ALL-IN-1 Interrupt and Scratchpad menus.

 o  Document paginator allows the Information Provider to paginate doc-
    uments for subsequent use by VTXAPMS, VTXUPD, or DEC VTX Workbench.
    The document paginator allows users to paginate WPS-PLUS documents,
    ASCII files, and DDIF files.

 Components

 DEC VTX Text Retrieval System includes all components necessary for
 designing, distributing, and accessing DEC VTX Text Retrieval System
 infobases and applications. The components are:

 o  Servers and Operator Utilities

    -  DEC VTX Text Retrieval System Server (VTXSRV) handles subscriber
       requests for the pages in an infobase.

    -  VTX Control Utility (VTXCTL) enables communication for the DEC
       VTX Text Retrieval System operator with the VTX server, Content-
       based Retrieval subsystem, update server, concentrator, DEC VTX
       Workbench Server, and the VTX application server to start and
       stop processes.

    -  VTX Account Control Utility (VTXACU) allows creation, modifi-
       cation, deletion, and maintenance of DEC VTX accounts.


                                  5

 

    -  DEC VTX Workbench Server (VTXWBSRV) controls all DEC VTX Work-
       bench update access to DEC VTX Text Retrieval System infobases
       and performs updates to the infobases. It also enables the user
       to retrieve and extract pages from the infobase for modifica-
       tion using the DEC VTX Workbench Graphical Interface.

    -  VTX Update Server (VTXUPDSRV) is a program that functions sim-
       ilarly to the server except that its purpose is to allow selected
       information providers, using the VTXUPD Utility, to update se-
       lected pages from a remote node.

    -  VTX Infobase Verification Utility (VTXIVU) performs infobase ver-
       ification and reports on the infobase structure. VTXIVU enables
       the user to examine the state of the infobase periodically and
       identify any discrepancies. Optionally, the verification report
       may contain a cross-reference listing of the infobase.

 o  Information Provider Tools

    -  VTX Update Utility (VTXUPD) provides full maintenance capabil-
       ity including creation, modification, and deletion of DEC VTX
       pages in the infobase, and management of CBR indexes. The util-
       ity offers two ways to work: menu mode for first-time or infre-
       quent users, and command mode for experienced users. This pro-
       gram can operate directly on infobase files or access infobase
       files through the network using the Update Server.

    -  VTX Automatic Page Management System (VTXAPMS) is an automated
       tool that assigns/replaces symbolic page references in VTXAPMS
       input files with page numbers and dynamically builds index menus.

    -  VTX Workbench Graphical Interface (VTXWBGI) allows the commu-
       nication of one or more Information Providers with the Workbench
       Server to create and maintain information in page and keyword
       files.

    -  VTX Workbench Command Language (VTXWBCL) allows the Information
       Provider to generate an infobase automatically from large or fre-
       quently updated sources, such as manuals and catalogs.

                                  6

 

    -  Print queue services allows the Information Provider to prepare
       different format files, such as DDIF documents, WPS-PLUS doc-
       uments, and text files for use in the VTX infobase. DEC VTX takes
       advantage of Digital's standard VMS printing facilities under
       VMS and PATHWORKS for VMS. The user can specify the printer des-
       tination and options.

 o  Concentrator (CON)

    A concentrator is used to control multiple terminals on a single
    node and to concentrate multiple terminal program sessions over a
    single DECnet link. In addition, a concentrator can be used to es-
    tablish certain terminals for VTX use only, so subscribers can do
    nothing else from that terminal.

    LAT support in the Concentrator allows Digital terminals and ALL-IN-1
    device type terminals connected to terminal servers to be assigned
    to the concentrator.

 o  External Link Interface (ELK)

    The External Link Interface (ELK) is a shareable image of callable
    routines. The ELK routines provide users with the ability to cre-
    ate custom-written applications with a subset of the DEC VTX pro-
    tocol capabilities to interact with a DEC VTX server and subscriber
    client. Applications interfacing with ELK can be written in any VMS
    supported language that complies with the VMS calling standard. In-
    terfacing with ELK offers the full advantage of a wide range of DEC
    VTX functions. ELK requires a thorough understanding of software
    development techniques used by the applications programmer.

 o  VTX Application Service (VAS)

    The VTX Application Service (VAS) is a higher level facility that
    uses the ELK interface. The VAS component is a VMS run-time image
    used to present form, menu, and display pages from the host VTX server's
    infobase as the user-interface to one or more transactional appli-
    cations defined by the customer. The VAS component can also dynam-
    ically create menu pages that are formatted by the VTX client. These
    transactional videotex applications can be defined entirely with

                                  7

 

    VAS or distributed with VAS communicating to custom-written exter-
    nal applications. Application interfaces include DECnet, P.S.I. X.25,
    and DECnet/SNA VMS APPC/LU6.2 Programming Interface.

 o  Remote Update Server Link (RUSL)

    The Remote Update Server Link (RUSL) is a shareable image of callable
    routines linked into custom-written code to create tailored update
    applications. RUSL applications can perform interactive VTX page
    and keyword extractions, updates, additions, and deletions through
    the update server. RUSL applications communicate with the update
    server via DECnet.

 o  DEC VTX Text Retrieval System Documentation

    Documentation on the installation, Service Provider, Information
    Provider, and the Application Provider and Text Retrieval User's
    Guide are included in the Server kit.

 o  Packaging

    All DEC VTX Text Retrieval System clients are included with the Server
    and can be copied to any node in the network.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified System Support
 Addendum (SSA 49.01.00-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For the DEC VTX Text Retrieval System Server for VMS to Support Any
 or All Clients:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection (if using INTERNET communications)

                                  8

 

 PATHWORKS for VMS is required on VMS to support any DOS or MS-Windows
 clients using DECnet or INTERNET, as the communication transport be-
 tween client and server.

 For VMS Workstations with DECwindows Motif Interface:

 o  VMS DECwindows Motif

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection (if using INTERNET)

 For ULTRIX VAX and ULTRIX RISC Character Cell Clients:

 o  ULTRIX Operating System

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection

    DEC VTX Text Retrieval System requires the following ULTRIX soft-
    ware subsets to be loaded on the system where DEC VTX is installed:

    -  UDTBASE420 (for RISC) or ULTBASE420 (for VAX), which is named
       "ULTRIX Base System"

    -  UDTINET420 (for RISC) or ULTINET420 (for VAX), which is named
       "TCP/IP Networking Utilities"

 For ULTRIX VAX and ULTRIX RISC Workstations with DEC Motif Interface:

 o  DEC Motif

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection

                                  9

 

 For DOS Character Cell Client on the PC:

 o  MS-DOS, PC-DOS, or COMPAQ[R]-DOS Operating System

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS (except when using the asynchronous line commu-
    nication support)

 o  PATHWORKS TCP/IP for DOS (if using INTERNET communications)

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS

 For MS-Windows Client on the PC:

 o  MS-Windows

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS (except when using the asynchronous line commu-
    nication support)

 On Its Corresponding VMS Server:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS

 Other VMS Components:

 o  VMS Operating System

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 49.01.00-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows Motif.

                                 10

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Operation of this product requires a DEC VTX Text Retrieval System Server
 and at least one DEC VTX Text Retrieval System client. All DEC VTX Text
 Retrieval System clients are included with the Server and may be copied
 to any node in the network. The one exception is the Macintosh client,
 which is available through a third-party vendor. Contact the local Dig-
 ital Sales Office for ordering information.

 Software Licenses: QL-MPSA*-**
 Software Media: QA-MPSA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-MPSAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-MPSA*-**

 The media kit includes media and documentation for the server, all clients,
 information providers, and VALU.

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's Licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support:

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx), the
 License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set, the ULTRIX Operating System Software Product Descrip-
 tion (SPD 26.40.xx), or the License Management Facility manual of the
 ULTRIX Operating System documentation set.

                                 11

 

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 [R]  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
      chines Corporation.

 [R]  Apple and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Com-
      puter, Inc.

 [R]  MS, MS-DOS, and Microsoft are registered trademarks of Mi-
      crosoft Corporation.

 [R]  COMPAQ is a registered trademark of COMPAQ Computer Corpora-
      tion.

 [R]  Interleaf is a registered trademark of Interleaf, Inc.

 [R]  Sony is a registered trademark of Sony Corporation.

 [TM]Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM]Motif is a trademark of Open Software Foundation, Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, CI, DEC, DEC VTX, DECchart, DECgraph,
     DECnet, DECpresent, DECserver, DECslide, DECstation, DECsystem,
     DECtalk, DECwindows, DECwrite, EDT, LAT, LinkWorks, LN03, Mi-
     croVAX, PATHWORKS, Rainbow, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft,
     VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT100, VT300, and WPS-PLUS are
     trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

                                 12
