 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:  WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0
	  SPD 31.06.02

          DESCRIPTION

          WPS-PLUS for VMS is a menu driven document processing software
          system that provides GOLD KEY style word processing for VMS
          users. It allows WPS-PLUS users to create, format and print
          documents that contain text, includes Encapsulated PostScript[R]
          (EPS) graphics and application data generated by a variety
          of Digital Equipment Corporation software products using the
          External Application Link. WPS-PLUS for VMS is installed as a
          layered product on VMS systems.

          WPS-PLUS for VMS software is compatible with Digital's Compound
          Document Architecture (CDA); it provides document conversion to
          the Digital Data Interchange Format (DDIF). DDIF files may also
          be imported into the WPS-PLUS system by using the document con-
          version features available from the WPS-PLUS Document Transfer
          Facility.

          The WPS-PLUS for VMS product provides word processing, EPS
          graphics inclusion, Two-Dimensional Editor, Editor Math, and
          List and Sort Processing capabilities. These features can be
          used to create high quality, sophisticated documents for distri-
          bution throughout the enterprise.

          Features

          WPS-PLUS for VMS software presents GOLD KEY style editing and
          other document processing functions through straightforward
          menu selections. Menus display options such as Create, Edit,
          Delete, Print, Read, Index, Send, Document Transfer, User-
          Defined Processing, File Cabinet Operations, Language Aids, List

                                       DIGITAL                  March 1991

                                                               AE-MW16C-TE

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02



          and Sort Processing and Training. Associated menu selections and
          options provide for additional and complementary functions.

          The WPS-PLUS for VMS editor supports a displayed ruler for
          defining text-positioning information such as left margin, tab
          stops, word wraps and right margins. Additional information such
          as justification of lines and positioning of EPS graphics is
          also defined using the ruler. Different levels of indentation
          and automatic word wrapping is possible without the need to
          redefine ruler settings.

          WPS-PLUS for VMS users can create and save an unlimited number
          of rulers with defined unique names. The ruler definition allows
          users to store, list, select, and delete any user named ruler.
          Rulers can also be stored system wide for WPS-PLUS users to list
          and access commonly used ruler definitions.

          Training/Help

          WPS-PLUS for VMS provides comprehensive, task-oriented, online
          training that is suitable for novices, as well as experienced
          users. Comprehensive training, including a New Features section,
          is available from a main menu selection. WPS-PLUS for VMS also
          provides extensive online Help that enables users to obtain
          information on keyboard layout, function keys, the current
          editing function, the current field in forms, and menu entries.

          An optionally displayed status line provides users with infor-
          mation such as the document name, folder and number, along with
          the current ruler settings. A displayed select mark is pro-
          vided to inform users of the relative position and status of the
          select operation.

          Informational messages are displayed, when appropriate, to guide
          and help WPS-PLUS users through various document processing
          functions.


                                          2

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02


          Editor

          WPS-PLUS for VMS software includes a full word processing Ed-
          itor with functions such as select, cut, paste, undelete, and
          navigation. Users can choose to edit documents in either insert
          or overstrike mode and retain the current rendition (for exam-
          ple, bold, underline) of text while editing. The WPS-PLUS for
          VMS product provides extensive search and replace capabilities
          including the ability to search for special characters. WPS-
          PLUS for VMS software allows for simultaneous editing of up to
          10 documents, with the addition of 10 fully-functional cut and
          paste buffers to move or copy text within a document, or from
          one document to another. The WPS-PLUS editor offers a directory
          of the open documents and allows users to access any open docu-
          ment while retaining the individual cursor position within each
          document. Automatic centering, underlining, bolding, uppercas-
          ing, double underscoring, superscripting and subscripting are
          available through easy to use key strokes. A customizable date
          and time stamp is available, from a menu selection, for WPS-PLUS
          users to create and display the format of their choice. The Edi-
          tor window can be increased to extend view and edit capabilities
          up to 54 lines (on appropriate devices) in length.

          The WPS-PLUS editor provides language aids such as spell check-
          ing and correcting (using standard and optional lexicons), usage
          alert, and thesaurus. User-specific and system-wide shared dic-
          tionaries are available when spell checking and correcting a
          document. Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.06.02-A).

          An optional grammar checker facility is available to complement
          the word processing capabilities of the WPS-PLUS for VMS system.
          Refer to System Support Addendum (SSA 31.06.02-A).

          Advanced Editing

          Advanced editorial features such as redlining, change bars,
          full footnote and endnote creation, editing and searching,
          and an on-screen, twenty-five column editor makes WPS-PLUS
          for VMS software an appropriate application for documentation
          and publication groups. WPS-PLUS for VMS supports the Digital
          Multinational character set and technical characters.

                                          3

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02



          User-Defined Processes (UDPs) allow users to automate frequently
          repeated key sequences. UDPs may be defined and invoked from any
          menu or form, other UDPs, or while editing a document. Users can
          create, edit, list, print, or delete any number of UDPs.

          The Two-Dimensional Editor (TDE) allows users to create, edit,
          and position diagrams of any length that include horizontal
          and vertical lines, boxes, scientific equations, line drawings,
          charts, matrixes, and VT100 character set equations.

          List Processing and Sort Processing allow users to create
          customized documents, letters or reports. A running total of
          records processed can be displayed on the user's screen, or
          any number of List or Sort Processing jobs can be submitted to
          run in a background mode for other WPS-PLUS functions (such as
          document editing) to be performed simultaneously. Users are au-
          tomatically informed when the job is complete and provided with
          a log of processed jobs.

          Management of background List or Sort Processing jobs is avail-
          able by use of the Job Services option from a menu selection.
          Job Services Option allows users to view an index of active
          jobs, delete, and hold jobs within the queue.

          Editor Math allows users to perform calculations with four math
          function capabilities.

          The WPS-PLUS for VMS product provides advanced users the abil-
          ity to link into a variety of software products by using the
          External Application Link (XAL).

          With a few keystrokes, users can select abbreviation and library
          documents to insert stored words, phrases, and paragraphs.

          Integrated Filing System

          WPS-PLUS for VMS software provides an integrated filing system
          with a File Cabinet for each user. The File Cabinet features:
          document and folder names, user defined keywords for each doc-
          ument, and retrieval by folder or document name, keyword or

                                          4

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02



          number. A document folders index can be viewed while selecting
          documents. The ability to delete, copy, or cross-file documents
          into other folders allows for a truly organized and easy to use
          filing system.

          The WPS-PLUS for VMS product allows multiple users to access
          and edit common, system-wide WPS-PLUS documents by using the
          Reference External file feature.

          Formatting and Printing

          Printer tables contain both the attribute and character defini-
          tions necessary to support a specific printer along with sheet
          feeder or bin selection information when applicable. WPS-PLUS
          for VMS allows users to create or modify printer tables, allow-
          ing each user to maintain unique printer tables. User options
          include the ability to create a table from an existing system
          table, edit, print, rename, or delete printer tables.

          WPS-PLUS for VMS provides full proportional printing and spacing
          capabilities, and support of PostScript devices. If desired,
          WPS-PLUS software will wrap text automatically. To format and
          print properly, proportional printing takes into consideration
          tab positions, centering, tabular columns, and justification
          settings. Changing fonts and point sizes within lines of text
          is performed easily by assigning renditions (for example, bold,
          underline, etc.) to print in any valid specified font and size.
          For justified text, users may wish to enhance the final ap-
          pearance of their documents by selecting user-definable hanging
          punctuation.

          When formatting a document, users can specify which standard
          or optional language lexicon to use with automatic hyphenation.
          Refer to System Support Addendum (SSA 31.06.02-A).

          The print facility supports stored settings that allow users
          to define page size and layout, top and bottom margins, inter-
          column spacing, and horizontal and vertical pitch values. Dy-
          namic pagination is user-controlled and settings can be defined
          within the actual document. Users can choose to mix portrait and

                                          5

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02



          landscape pages within a single document and define differing
          numbering schemes for pages, footnotes or sections. WPS-PLUS
          for VMS software automatically allows for the placement of head-
          ers and footers at the top or bottom of each page with an op-
          tional alternating fashion. Printing of multiple column tables,
          automatic page numbering, control of widows and orphans, non-
          breaking blocks of text, one-pass paragraph numbering, tables of
          contents, tables of authorities, and indexes are examples of the
          extensive formatting features available within the WPS-PLUS for
          VMS product.

          A menu selection allows users to print documents (on supported
          devices) in number up, simplex, duplex, and tumble print styles
          and to specify different page sizes on appropriate devices.
          Refer to System Support Addendum (SSA 31.06.02-A).

          Printing WPS-PLUS-created PostScript files to non-PostScript
          devices is also supported by using the optional DECprint Utility
          for PostScript to Sixel Printing for VMS V1.0. (SPD 31.56.xx).

          Management of background printing jobs is available through use
          of the Job Services Option from a menu selection.

          Graphics

          WPS-PLUS for VMS provides users with the ability to include,
          size, and position Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) graphic files.
          EPS files can be scaled horizontally and vertically to exact
          dimensions in either inches or centimeters. The WPS-PLUS for VMS
          product supplies users with over 100 EPS graphic art images that
          can be used to enhance the visual impact of their documents.

          Conversions and Transferring Documents

          WPS-PLUS for VMS allows users to interchange documents between
          supported personal computers running WPS-PLUS/DOS. Documents
          can also be transferred to and from the DECmate II and DECmate
          III workstations. Conversion of documents to the Digital Data

                                          6

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02



          Interchange Format (DDIF), DX, and ASCII file formats is avail-
          able as is the ability to import documents from these respective
          formats.

          A menu selection allows users to choose to convert a WPS-PLUS
          document, minus text attributes, to a VMS file and send it using
          VMSmail.

          High Quality Output

          The WPS-PLUS for VMS document processing system provides the
          necessary tools to allow for the creation and printing of high
          quality, professional looking documents.

          o  Proportional printing

          o  Support of PostScript devices

          o  Automatic hyphenation

          o  Inclusion of scalable Encapsulated PostScript graphics

          o  Over 100 EPS graphics art images

          o  Extensive document customization

          o  Full array of language aids

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configuration as speci-
          fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.06.02-A).

          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

          o  VMS Operating System

          o  VAX FMS Runtime Only System

          VAX ScriptPrinter Software is required to print non-PostScript
          files to a ScriptPrinter.


                                          7

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02


          Note:

          VAX FMS Runtime Only System is a prerequisite to run WPS-PLUS
          for VMS. The Runtime Only System is included in the complete FMS
          product kit, but can be purchased separately. The complete VAX
          FMS product kit is not required.

          Customers who have not purchased the complete FMS product kit,
          must purchase the FMS Runtime Only System software license as
          well as the FMS Runtime Only Media Kit.

          *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.06.02-A) for
             availability and versions of required software.

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          Software Licenses: QL-AAME*-**
          Software Media: QA-AAME*-**
          Software Documentation: QA-AAMEA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-AAME*-**

          *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
             able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
             price book.

















                                          8

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02



          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

          This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
          cility. License units for this product are allocated on a
          CPU-capacity basis.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
          to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
          25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
          Operating System documentation set.

          For more information on Digital's licensing terms and policies,
          contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
          more information contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
          the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
          Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

          [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

          [R]  HP is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.




                                          9

 


          WPS-PLUS/BRITISH for VMS, Version 4.0               SPD 31.06.02




          [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, WPS-PLUS, CDA, CI, DECmate, DECprint,
               DDIF, DX, FMS, LQP02, LA50, LA324, PrintServer, MicroVAX,
               VAX, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS and VT are trademarks of
               Digital Equipment Corporation.


































                                         10
