 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.1
           SPD 25.J1.01

           DESCRIPTION

           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS®, Version 2.1 software is
           an enhanced software and maintenance release for the DEC-
           server 300.

           The DECserver 300 software provides concurrent Local Area
           Transport (LAT) and Telnet TCP/IP protocol support from a
           DECserver 300 terminal server to enable connectivity to host
           systems that utilize LAT or TCP/IP protocols. The TCP/IP pro-
           tocol suite is used to connect to UNIX® host systems and other
           host systems that support the TCP/IP protocol suite.

           The DECserver 300 Terminal Server is an Ethernet Communi-
           cations Server for Ethernet Local Area Networks. The DEC-
           server 300 provides a convenient method to logically con-
           nect up to sixteen digital asynchronous terminals to one or
           more service nodes (hosts) on an Ethernet. Once the termi-
           nal is connected, a user can utilize application programs
           and utilities as though the terminal was directly connected
           to a host via a DMF32, DHU11 or DHV11/DHQ11 device, with a
           few exceptions. Thus, it may be possible to utilize the DEC-
           server 300 to connect all terminals to service nodes in place
           of traditional interfaces, except for host console termi-
           nals and remote connection via dial-in modems, which is not
           supported.

           The DECserver 300 uses MMJs (Modified Modular Jacks) for the
           attachment of asynchronous devices. The MMJ segregates a Data
           from a Voice connection. The DECserver 300 utilizes the EIA
           423-A electrical interface standard for local connections.

                                    DIGITAL            December 1991

                                                         AE-NE47D-TE

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           EIA 423-A is compatible with the EIA 232-D interface and sup-
           ports DTR/DSR (Data Terminal Ready/Data Set Ready) signals.
           EIA 423-A supports longer cable runs and higher signaling
           speeds.

           The DECserver 300 does not support connections to wide-area
           networks via modems. However, it does provide the capabil-
           ity for connections to non-LAT hosts.

           The DECserver 300 also allows for host-initiated connections
           to serial printers. A print symbiont on service nodes can
           initiate connections to serial printers connected to DEC-
           server 300 ports. This allows the printers to be distributed
           throughout a facility and accessed transparently by service
           node users. Incoming host-initiated connect requests may be
           queued FIFO at the server.

           Port-to-port connections on the same server are also sup-
           ported.

           The DECserver 300 implements the LAT protocol for communi-
           cation with service nodes that implement this protocol on
           the same Ethernet. This interface has been optimized for high
           terminal I/O performance over an Ethernet, while reducing
           host CPU cycles required to handle interrupts. Hence, un-
           der most I/O loading conditions, a significant performance
           gain may be realized by using the DECserver 300 versus di-
           rect terminal connections via traditional asynchronous back-
           plane communications interfaces.

           The DECserver 300 also implements the TCP/IP protocol suite
           for communication with host systems that implement TCP/IP.
           The TCP/IP protocols are based on the University of Cali-
           fornia's 4.3 Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD). The fol-
           lowing TCP/IP protocols are supported and adhere to the De-
           fense Data Network (DDN) Request for Comments:

           o  Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is the Internet stan-
              dard transport level protocol that provides the reliable,


                                       2

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


              end-to-end full duplex, stream service that supports many
              application protocols. (RFC 793).

           o  User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is an Internet protocol that
              provides datagram service to application programs, al-
              lowing an application program on one machine to send a
              datagram to an applications program on another machine.
              UDP is necessary for the Domain Name System and the Sim-
              ple Network Management Protocol (SNMP). (RFC 768).

           o  Internet Protocol (IP) is an Internet standard protocol
              that defines the Internet datagram as the unit of infor-
              mation that gets passed across the Internet, and provides
              the universal addressing scheme for hosts and gateways
              for Internet connection-less, best effort packet deliv-
              ery services. IP includes ICMP as an integral part. (RFC
              791).

           o  Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is an Internet
              network protocol that specifies error and control mes-
              sages used with the Internet protocols. (RFC 792).

           o  Packet Internet Groper (PING) tests the reachability of
              nodes on the users' Internet. ICMP echos requests are sent
              and replies processed.

           o  Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is an Internet proto-
              col used to perform dynamic address resolution to dynam-
              ically map or translate an Internet address into the cor-
              rect physical hardware address. (RFC 826).

           o  Telnet is the standard Internet application level pro-
              tocol for remote terminal connection service. Telnet is
              a virtual terminal facility that allows a user at one site
              to establish a TCP connection to a remote system. Tel-
              net makes the local terminal appear as a direct exten-
              sion of the remote system, allowing the user to conduct
              a session and run application programs as if the user's
              terminal was directly connected to the remote system. (RFC
              854).

                                       3

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


              Both Telnet client and server capabilities are provided:

              Telnet client provides the ability to connect to any re-
              mote TCP port at an Internet address on a local area net-
              work (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN). Telnet client
              allows the user to specify a remote computer by Inter-
              net address as well as by domain name.

              Telnet server provides the ability to accept connection
              requests from Internet hosts on a LAN or WAN to DECserver
              300 ports, such as printers, host systems, or other se-
              rial devices.

              Telnet character and binary profiles are supported for
              Internet sessions. Telnet options supported include: sta-
              tus (RFC 859), end of record (RFC 885), remote flow con-
              trol (RFC 1080), echo (RFC 857), timing mark (RFC 860),
              binary (RFC 856), and suppress go ahead (RFC 858).

              Telnet Remote Console allows a user to establish a re-
              mote Telnet connection to the management port on the ter-
              minal server and manage the server as if locally attached.
              The Telnet listener 23 can now be assigned to any ter-
              minal server port as well as the remote console. Any Tel-
              net listener (23, 2001-20016) can be assigned to be the
              remote console.

           o  Internet Domain Name System (DNS) Support. The Domain Name
              System provides the translation from system name to In-
              ternet address. The DECserver 300 will interface to user
              programs and send queries to domain name servers for trans-
              lating domain names to Internet addresses, and Internet
              addresses to domain names. (RFC's 1034,1035).

           o  Subnet Addressing (RFC 950).






                                       4

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           o  Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP). The SNMP agent
              allows the DECserver 300 to be managed by an SNMP net-
              work management system. Retrieving information from the
              terminal server is possible using the SNMP GET and GET-
              NEXT requests. The terminal server can send unsoliticed
              event alarms to specified SNMP management stations via
              the SNMP TRAP message. Terminal server variables acces-
              sible via SNMP are defined by the Internet documents: MIB
              II, RS232-Like MIB, and the Character MIB. (RFC 1157)

           o  Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP). A host computer which
              supports SLIP can use the DECserver 300 serial port as
              it's network connection. This gives IP end nodes which
              have no Ethernet controller, access to the network and
              to other serial line attached TCP/IP end nodes. Any IP
              application can then be run over the SLIP link. (RFC 1055)

           The DECserver 300 also implements and supports the Termi-
           nal Device/Session Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage
           multiple sessions at the device level. The DECserver 300 pro-
           vides the ability to communicate with devices which also im-
           plement this protocol, and assist in the management of mul-
           tiple sessions for these devices. By implementing this pro-
           tocol, the DECserver 300 can permit attached devices to main-
           tain screen and keyboard context for multiple LAT and/or Tel-
           net sessions, as well as allow these devices to run multi-
           ple LAT and/or Telnet sessions concurrently.

           The DECserver 300 implements the ODL (On Demand Loading) font
           loading protocol which allows Asian terminals that imple-
           ment the ODL protocol to communicate with a VMS host via a
           terminal server. The Asian terminals will be able to request
           font definitions from a VMS host when connected to a DEC-
           server 300. This feature is supported only for LAT connec-
           tions.






                                       5

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           Software that runs on the DECserver 300 is downline loaded
           over the network from a Phase IV or V DECnet load host. Ter-
           minal access using the DECserver 300 does not require DEC-
           net running in the same service node; LAT uses the Ether-
           net addressing mechanism to transport terminal messages.

           Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal ses-
           sions, automatic failover, and remote printer support can
           lead to greater user productivity.

           For wide area network communications, terminal users can con-
           nect to remote hosts via Telnet through a TCP/IP router or
           gateway. In addition, terminal users can connect to a lo-
           cal service node running DECnet, where they can "SET HOST"
           to a remote system via the DECnet network terminal proto-
           col. If this system has the requisite X.25 or SNA 3270 ac-
           cess routines, a terminal user could communicate to a re-
           mote SNA or X.25 host through the appropriate gateway and
           this intervening host. A DECserver 300 terminal user can-
           not communicate directly to remote hosts through DECnet Routers
           or X.25/SNA Gateways. Wide area network traffic will not pro-
           vide the same high level of performance as local terminal
           connections, due to the additional DECnet or Internet pro-
           tocol overhead.

           Features

           Terminal Connection Management

           Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a
           logical connection, called a session, to any service node
           that implements the LAT or Telnet protocol on the same Eth-
           ernet LAN, or to a remote host that implements the TCP/IP
           protocol suite. This connection makes the terminal appear
           as if it were physically connected to the service node, and
           the terminal user can use standard system utilities and ap-
           plications supported by that node. Each terminal connected




                                       6

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           to the server can connect to the same or a different ser-
           vice node on the Ethernet. Furthermore, several servers can
           be used to connect many terminals to one or more service nodes.

           A service node can have one or more services that are of-
           fered to DECserver 300 users. Services and nodes are iden-
           tified by name. Users always connect to services, not to nodes,
           although often one of the service names will be the node name.

           In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 300 sees each VAX-
           cluster on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes of-
           fering a common service. Each cluster node may also offer
           a service whose name is equivalent to its node name. In this
           case, a terminal user can connect either to the cluster ser-
           vice or a service associated with a particular cluster node.

           Load Balancing

           When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for
           the connection is determined by load balancing. Load bal-
           ancing is a process the server uses when more than one node
           offers the same service. Service nodes do not have to be con-
           figured in a cluster in order for load balancing to be used.
           Service nodes with the same names may be running different
           operating systems. Using the load balancing process, the server
           connects to the node with the highest rating for the ser-
           vice desired. This rating is based on the current loading
           on the nodes that offer the service.

           This feature is supported only for LAT connections.

           Multiple Sessions

           The DECserver 300 allows each user to establish and main-
           tain up to eight sessions to one or more service nodes, up
           to a maximum of 128 per DECserver 300. Only one session per
           user can be active at a time. Through simple switching com-
           mands, the user can access the different sessions without



                                       7

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           repeating a login dialogue each time. Some operating sys-
           tems may impose limits on the number of LAT or Telnet ses-
           sions which a host will support.

           Multiple Session Management

           The DECserver 300 server allows direct communication with
           devices which support the TD/SMP protocol. This protocol pro-
           vides the ability for the attached device to maintain screen
           and keyboard context for the multiple LAT or Telnet sessions
           which the DECserver 300 provides. By implementing the abil-
           ity to directly communicate with this protocol to the at-
           tached device, the DECserver 300 can now assist in the man-
           agement of context of these multiple sessions, as well as
           allow for simultaneous output to multiple LAT or Telnet ses-
           sions being maintained by the device.

           Outbound Connection Queues

           If a terminal user requests a connection to a server, and
           the requested service is currently in use, the terminal server
           users may opt to have the connection requested queued to the
           remote service. If the user's port has been appropriately
           configured, this feature happens automatically whenever a
           connection fails for this reason. The connection request is
           queued at the service node end and is processed first-in/first-
           out until such time as the user's connection request can be
           completed. This feature assists in the fair management of
           limited network resources. Once queued for connection, the
           user also has the option to cancel the queue entry and pro-
           ceed with other sessions. This feature is supported only for
           LAT connections.

           Command Line Recall and Editing

           The DECserver 300 server supports multiple command line en-
           try recall and editing.

           Welcome Identification


                                       8

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           The DECserver 300 server standard welcome banner, which in-
           cludes terminal server type, version number, internal base-
           level, and protocol version number is issued whenever a user
           successfully logs in to the server. The server will also print
           a server manager settable identification string. This can
           be useful for automatic server identification, or for small
           daily messages used for communication with the terminal server
           users.

































                                       9

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           Local Mode and Service Mode

           For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver
           300 is identical to the environment the user would experi-
           ence if attached directly to the service node. When oper-
           ating in this mode, the user is said to be in Service Mode.
           Occasionally, such as during connection establishment, the
           user interacts directly with the DECserver 300. When oper-
           ating in this mode, the user is in Local Mode.

           In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly
           by DECserver 300 as commands to be performed by the server.

           Additional commands and displays to support the features avail-
           able with the TD/SMP protocol are usable in Local Mode. These
           commands will be used to enable or disable server recogni-
           tion of the TD/SMP commands.

           Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: priv-
           ileged, nonprivileged and secure. Privileged mode is pro-
           vided for the Server Manager to control the environment of
           the server and of the terminal users. Access to this mode
           is password protected. Nonprivileged commands allow the ter-
           minal user to control their service sessions, set the ter-
           minal characteristics and show server information. The Server
           Manager can set the server to secure mode on a per-terminal
           basis, which further limits the commands users can enter to
           only those which directly relate to the user's own termi-
           nal.

           The Server Manager environment is a logical extension of the
           user environment. The Server Manager is treated as a server
           user with a privileged status. The Server Manager sets a ter-
           minal to this status using a command which requires a pass-
           word. This privileged status allows the Server Manager to
           enter commands not normally available to server users. These
           commands set server characteristics, provide control over
           server port usage, and provide the ability to control the
           user's access to the server and network services.


                                      10

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to
           the connected service node with several exceptions. One ex-
           ception, called the local switch character, allows the user
           to enter Local Mode from Service Mode. The <BREAK> key may
           also be used for this function. Other exceptions, called the
           forward and backward switch characters, allow the user to
           switch between sessions without the need to enter local mode.
           The switch characters are disabled by default but may be en-
           abled by command. Both CTRL/S and CTRL/Q are normally in-
           terpreted locally but flow control using these characters
           can be disabled.

           Autoconnection

           Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a
           user terminal to a service node when connection failures oc-
           cur or upon user login to the server. In conjunction with
           this function, a dedicated or preferred service can be spec-
           ified for each terminal user.

           If a dedicated service is specified, the DECserver 300 will
           attempt to connect to that service when a character is typed
           on the terminal keyboard or when an existing connection fails.
           In dedicated service mode, only one session is available.
           As this mode is designed to simulate a direct terminal con-
           nection, no local mode commands or messages are available
           to the terminal user. Ports with dedicated service can be
           automatically logged out of the server when the user logs
           out of the service node.

           If a preferred service is specified, the DECserver 300 will
           attempt to connect to that service as with the dedicated ser-
           vice mode of operation. However, the terminal user can en-
           ter local mode and establish other sessions.

           Automatic Protocol Selection





                                      11

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           It is possible to automatically connect to an Internet host
           or LAT service without explicitly identifying the connec-
           tion as LAT or Telnet. If the port is configured with a value
           for the default protocol as "ANY," the server will attempt
           a LAT connection first to the name specified in the LAT ser-
           vice field. If the service is not available or unknown, the
           terminal server will then automatically attempt a Telnet con-
           nection to Internet host specified in the command.

           Automatic Session Failover

           If a service is available on two or more service nodes and
           a connection to a service fails, the server will attempt to
           connect the user to another service node offering the same
           service. The user does not have to be connected to that ser-
           vice node. Furthermore, the user's context at the time of
           failure is not automatically restored and login to the new
           service is required. This feature is supported only for LAT
           connections.

           Groups

           Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a mem-
           ber of one or more groups, which are specified by a list of
           numbers from 0 - 255. Groups allow an easy means of subdi-
           viding the network into what appears to be many smaller net-
           works. A terminal user is only aware of the services that
           are offered by nodes in the same group(s).

           The Server Manager can specify the authorized group(s) in
           which a terminal is a member. The authorized groups define
           the set of services that the user is allowed to access. In
           addition, a user can further restrict access to services by
           disabling some of the authorized groups using a non-privileged
           group command. The user-settable group codes are a subset
           of the authorized groups.





                                      12

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This re-
           stricted view is mainly for user convenience and, although
           it also provides a form of security, it is not intended to
           be the primary form of access authorization or system se-
           curity for a node. Groups apply only to LAT connections.

           Security

           The DECserver 300 provides functions which enhance security
           features already available in the service nodes. DECserver
           300 security includes the ability to lock a terminal's key-
           board from other users, optional login protection, and non-
           privileged local mode of operation as a default.

           A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This al-
           lows the user to leave sessions running at the terminal with-
           out fear of security violations. When a terminal is locked,
           all input from the terminal is ignored until the lock pass-
           word is reentered. The lock feature may be disabled by the
           Server Manager.

           Each terminal port can be set to operate in a secure mode,
           which causes all commands that relate to other users to be
           disabled for that port.

           Login passwords can be enabled on a per-line basis by the
           server manager. If enabled, the terminal user must enter a
           login password to access server functions.

           DECserver 300 users normally have access to the nonprivi-
           leged local mode. In this mode, users may only issue com-
           mands that effect their own terminal environment. The server
           has a privileged mode for server manager's use. The mode is
           password protected.

           Online HELP Facility





                                      13

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's
           HELP command provides information on the correct syntax and
           details about each command. In addition, a tutorial HELP fea-
           ture allows new users to quickly learn the basics of DEC-
           server 300 operation. Tutorial HELP may be entered upon log-
           ging into the server.

           Directory Service

           Any DECserver 300 user can obtain a directory of services
           available to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Ser-
           vices for which the user is not authorized will not be dis-
           played. Services apply only to LAT connections.

           Permanent Characteristics

           The DECserver 300 maintains permanent characteristics in non-
           volatile memory, which is retained even when the power is
           disconnected. Permanent characteristics are maintained for
           service and server parameters as well as per-port parame-
           ters. Permanent characteristics can be reset to factory de-
           faults by pressing the software reset button on the hard-
           ware unit while plugging in the power cord.

           Port Characteristics Configuration

           Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port
           can be displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interac-
           tively from the user's terminal. Many of the characteris-
           tics may be set by the user, but certain characteristics are
           privileged and may only be changed by the Server Manager.

           Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed,
           character size, group codes, parity, terminal type, access,
           autobaud, default protocol, and password protection.

           Port Access




                                      14

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           A port on a DECserver 300 may be configured in different ways
           depending on the device attached to the port and its intended
           use. DECserver 300 uses MMJs (Modified Modular Jacks) as the
           physical interface. The DECserver 300 utilizes EIA 423-A elec-
           trical interface standard for local connections, which is
           compatible with the EIA 232-D interface and supports six-
           teen asynchronous devices operating at speeds up to 19.2K
           bps with DTR/DSR (Data Terminal Ready/Data Terminal Set Ready)
           signaling.

           Port access is the characteristic which determines how a port
           may access or be accessed by interactive users and service
           nodes.

           o  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This
              allows the device (typically an interactive terminal) at-
              tached to the port to CONNECT to LAT or Telnet.

           o  Access Remote - Designed for application-driven devices
              such as asynchronous printers which are allocated by a
              service node process. This allows the implementation of
              certain shared printers by multiple service nodes.

           o  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal
              computers or printers with keyboards) which require both
              Local and Remote access.

           o  Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to dis-
              able the use of a port.

           With printer support capabilities, the configuration pro-
           cedure of remote printers needs to be done once and will be
           automatically reconfigured on system startup. The partic-
           ular server port must be configured for remote access and
           set up to match the characteristics of the printer. The sys-
           tem startup command file must be modified to call the two
           command files provided with the service node software. Fi-
           nally, the command files themselves must be customized to
           reflect the environment of their node. The server can op-
           tionally queue remote connects if these connects cannot be

                                      15

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           satisfied immediately. This queue management can be enabled
           for the server by the server manager. Note that this is a
           connection queue only.

           Improved printer sharing allows a printer port on the ter-
           minal server to be shared between LAT users and ULTRIX or
           UNIX lpr users.

           Terminal Operation

           The DECserver 300 software supports the simultaneous oper-
           ation of up to sixteen asynchronous devices at speeds from
           75 bps to 19.2K bps. The software also supports:

           o  Data leads only support

           o  DSR logout

           o  Signal check

           o  Signal control

           o  DSR/DTR flow control

           o  XON/XOFF flow control

           o  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

           o  Block Mode transfers

           o  Automatic line speed detection

           o  Digital personal computer file transfer

           o  Data transparency mode

           o  Ability to pass break character and error notification

           o  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD
              /SMP

           Server Management

                                      16

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting
           server operation. The Server Manager in privileged mode can
           set up server identification information, change port char-
           acteristics, or fine tune the operating characteristics of
           the server. Troubleshooting facilities include diagnostic
           tests, a remote console feature, and online statistics.

           A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications prob-
           lems by looping messages to an Ethernet host and through the
           Ethernet hardware interface at the server. To diagnose ter-
           minal problems, users can execute a command to transmit test
           data to their terminal, or the server manager can send test
           data to any terminal.

           The capability also exists for the server manager to test
           a service connection by sending data from the initiating port
           to the service node and back again. The data is then com-
           pared and any discrepancies reported. At the service node,
           the data can be looped back by the LAT protocol, or inter-
           nally or externally at the service port. This feature is sup-
           ported only by DECserver 300 service nodes; VAX/VMS service
           nodes do not support this service loopback capability.

           The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters.
           These include the following: Ethernet data link statistics,
           LAT protocol statistics, and port error statistics. This data
           can be displayed and zeroed by the Server Manager. Server
           parameters that can be modified and displayed include the
           server identification, circuit timer, session limits, and
           login limits.

           Internet statistics are also maintained by the server. In-
           ternet characteristics such as Internet address and subnet
           mask can be modified and displayed. IP, ICMP, TCP, IP, UDP,
           DNS, and SNMP protocol statistics can be displayed.

           Remote Server Management




                                      17

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           The DECserver 300 implements the console carrier feature which
           enables access to the DECserver 300 local mode from a Phase
           IV or V DECnet host on the same LAN. With the exception of
           remote console port configuration, the entire local mode user
           interface is accessible to the remote console carrier user.
           This includes the privileged commands if the user knows the
           server's privileged password. This capability allows cen-
           tralized server management and remote server diagnosis.

           The Telnet Remote Console feature is also available as stated
           above.

           Communications

           DECserver 300 software is designed to run on DECserver 300
           hardware exclusively, which includes an Ethernet interface
           for connection to an Ethernet transceiver cable.

           The DECserver 300 hardware has sixteen Modified Modular Jacks
           (MMJ) integral to the box. Each port can be individually con-
           figured in various modes:

           o  Data leads only

           o  Signal Control

           o  Data leads with DSR logout (if a terminal is powered down
              the session is automatically disconnected)

           o  Data leads with signal check (checks signal status be-
              fore and during a session)

           o  DSR/DTR flow control

           DECserver 300 Operation

           The DECserver 300 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary
           maintenance operation protocols for downline loading DEC-
           server 300 software from a Phase IV or V DECnet load host
           over the Ethernet into server memory. All self-test diag-
           nostics are in DECserver 300 ROM and are executed on power-
           up prior to downline load- ing the server. In the event of

                                      18

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           a bugcheck caused by a fatal error, the unit will normally
           attempt to upline dump server memory to a DECnet Phase IV
           or V load host. Following this, the unit will automatically
           initialize itself and invoke a downline load.

           DECserver 300 Configuration and Performance

           The process of configuring the DECserver 300 is based pri-
           marily on tradeoffs of cost and performance within the realm
           of satisfying user application requirements. Network appli-
           cations will range from low-speed/low-cost to those of rel-
           atively high performance (e.g., connecting high-speed lo-
           cal terminals to local hosts within a local area network).
           The performance of a given server is a function of the ex-
           pected network traffic, the load on hosts to which termi-
           nals are connected, and resultant processing pursuant to the
           dedicated function of the unit. Thus performance depends on
           several factors:

           o  Number of terminals

           o  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

           o  Terminal speeds

           o  Terminal user applications

           o  Number and size of host buffers

           o  Terminal workload

           The DECserver 300 can sustain an aggregate character through-
           put of 30,720 characters per second. This is equivalent to
           running sixteen ports at 19,200 bps.

           In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or
           a Digital software specialist should perform a level of ap-
           plication analysis which addresses the factors above. The
           actual maximum data throughput cannot be calculated by mul-
           tiplying the number of lines by the line speed, since many
           factors already discussed in this section may reduce the ac-
           tual throughput.

                                      19

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           Restrictions on DECserver 300 Usage

           While terminal connections using the DECserver 300 have been
           designed to simulate direct terminal connections as much as
           possible, a few differences necessarily exist because of the
           nature of the product. Under most circumstances, these dif-
           ferences are not noticed by terminal users or service node
           application programs. However, applications which are di-
           rectly dependent on the following functions may not oper-
           ate as with a direct connection:

           o  Applications that depend on reading or setting the ter-
              minal speed, character size and parity by manipulating
              system data structures

           o  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response
              time (typically less than 200 ms) to operate

           o  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver
              in the service node

           o  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed
              device names

           The DECserver 300 does not support the use of modems.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For VAX Systems:

           Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in
           the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.J1.02-x).

           For MS-DOS Systems:

           Processors supported (Load Host System)

           Personal Computer: DECstation 316, 325

           DEC EtherWORKS
           Turbo or LC Ethernet adapter

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

                                      20

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           For VAX Systems:

           VMS Operating System

           DECnet-VAX

           For MS-DOS Systems:

           MS-DOS Operating System

           PATHWORKS for DOS

           *  Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and
              required versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA
              25.J1.02-x).

           Refer to the following SPD for information on other supported
           DECserver 300 systems:

           DECserver 300 for ULTRIX (SPD 25.J2.xx)





















                                      21

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01


           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-VTUA9-AA
           Software Media: QA-VTUAA-H*
           Software Documentation: QA-VTUAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-VTUA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           The DECserver 300 software license applies to the DECserver
           300 on which the server software runs, not to service host
           node CPUs in the network.

           This product does not provide support for the VMS License
           Management Facility. A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is
           not required for installation or use of this version of the
           product.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.




                                      22

 



           DECserver 300 for VMS and MS-DOS, Version 2.SPD 25.J1.01



           ®    UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Labo-
                ratories.

           ®    IBM is a registered trademark of International
                Business Machines Corporation.

           ®    MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpo-
                ration.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, VAX, VMS, VAXstation, VAXserver,
                VAXcluster, VAXmate, MicroVAX, DECserver, DECmate,
                DECstation, Professional, Rainbow, PATHWORKS, ULTRIX
                INTERNET, and DECnet are trademarks of Digital
                Equipment Corporation.


























                                      23
