 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECmcc Basic Management System, Version 1.2      SPD
 32.48.02

 DESCRIPTION

 The DECmcc Basic Management System (BMS) is a complete, prepackaged
 DECmcc Product Family management system for multivendor, multi-protocol
 networks. It provides access to, and management functions for, Dig-
 ital Equipment Corporation's ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS (DECnet Phase IV, DEC-
 net/OSI, and TCP/IP) and open network environments. The DECmcc BMS is
 a modular software product that can be extended through the addition
 of other DECmcc products, third party, or user-developed software mod-
 ules.

 Available on the VMS and ULTRIX Operating Systems, the DECmcc BMS pro-
 vides both generic and device-specific management functions includ-
 ing:

 o  Graphic and Command Line User Interfaces that provide consistent
    views and interactions with the management system regardless of the
    objects managed or the protocols used to manage them.

 o  Configuration Management functions that include automated discov-
    ery and device registration, topology mapping, and user-defined man-
    agement domains.

 o  Generic Notification and Alarm functions that enable users to de-
    fine alarm rules and set up notification and automated procedures
    to locate existing and potential network problems or events.

 o  Generic Historical Data Recording and Data Export functions that
    allow users to define, collect, timestamp, and re-use historical
    network data and export DECmcc management information to an exter-
    nal relational database.

                               DIGITAL                     July 1992

                                                         AE-PC86C-TE

 

 o  Device-specific Performance Statistics functions for DECnet Phase
    IV and DECnet/OSI nodes, Digital LAN Bridges, and TCP/IP hosts.

 Consistent with the EMA Director Model, of which it is an implemen-
 tation, the DECmcc BMS consists of a set of layered Management Mod-
 ules supported by an open Applications Programming Interface (API),
 an Executive or operating system-like set of module support functions,
 and an object oriented Management Information Repository (MIR) pro-
 viding data structure and storage functions.

 o  Management Modules provide services to users and one another. There
    are three types of Management Modules:

    -  Access Modules (AMs) provide remote protocol support for, and
       management information about, different classes of managed ob-
       jects.

    -  Function Modules (FMs) provide services such as object regis-
       tration, statistics generation, fault detection, and notifica-
       tion to users and to one another.

    -  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user interface
       for the direct manipulation of managed objects (through AMs) and
       user access to management operations (through FMs).

 o  The Executive provides system services that enable Management Mod-
    ules to be installed and used independently or in combination.

 o  The Applications Programming Interface defines how Management Mod-
    ules invoke each other's services. The DECmcc API is open and doc-
    umented to support Digital, third party, or user-developed modules.

 o  The Management Information Repository (MIR) provides a means to struc-
    ture and store management information.

 DECmcc BMS Access Modules

 DECmcc BMS AMs provide access to network and system objects in Dig-
 ital's ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS and other mixed, multivendor network envi-
 ronments that use the following management protocols: DECnet NICE, DEC-
 net/OSI CMIP, SNMP, and IEEE 802.2/Ethernet/MOP.

                                  2

 

 o  The DECnet Phase IV AM enables users to manage DECnet Phase IV ob-
    jects such as nodes, circuits, lines, and adjacencies. With the DEC-
    net Phase IV AM, users can modify DECnet parameters, set charac-
    teristics, collect DECnet events, and poll for management data such
    as counters or status.

 o  The DECnet/OSI CMIP AM provides management access to DECnet devices
    that use Digital's implementation of the standard Common Manage-
    ment Information Protocol (CMIP). This version of CMIP, implemented
    on DECnet/OSI devices, provides management operations and data gath-
    ering functions for DECnet/OSI networks including the ability to
    sink DECnet events to the DECmcc system.

 o  The TCP/IP SNMP AM includes support for the following Internet Ad-
    visory Board (IAB) Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) RFCs:
    1155, 1156, 1157, 1212, and 1213. This includes full MIB II sup-
    port in addition to support for on-site enrollment of vendor-specific
    Enterprise MIBs including:

    -  A MIB translation utility that automatically checks the syntax
       of the ASN.1 Concise MIB definition (providing error messages
       to help identify syntax problems) and translates the data for
       loading the information into the DECmcc Director's Management
       Information Repository (MIR).

    -  An event-logging sink for collecting SNMP generic traps (unso-
       licited TCP/IP event messages) including: coldStart, warmStart,
       linkDown, linkUp, egpNeighborLoss, authentificationFailure, and
       enterpriseSpecific.

    -  Ability to perform GET and SET operations on devices supported
       by SNMP agents.

    -  ICMP ECHO_REQUEST (ping) support for verifying the reachabil-
       ity of an SNMP managed object at the IP level.

       Note: DEC TCP/IP Services for VMS is required for using the TCP
       /IP SNMP AM on VMS systems.


                                  3

 

    -  The IEEE 802.3/Ethernet Station AM enables users to manage at
       the network interface level any 802.3/Ethernet LAN device that
       supports MOP REQID, MOP SYSID, MOP Counters, Ethernet V2 Loop-
       back, IEEE 802.2 XID, or IEEE 802.2 Test.

    -  Circuit AM works as a client of management protocol modules to
       provide management of circuits connecting endpoints compliant
       with the Network Management Forum (NMF) definitions. Compliant
       endpoints include DECnet Phase IV and DECnet OSI nodes, and TCP
       /IP hosts. Tying together circuit, line, link, and other end-
       point data, this AM can gather status data and store reference
       information about simple, point-to-point circuits or complex multi-
       channel circuits.

 DECmcc BMS Function Modules

 The DECmcc BMS includes generic and device-specific FMs that provide
 a variety of management services to end users and, in combination, to
 one another. These services include configuration management functions,
 fault management functions including alarm and notification services,
 historical data recording and data export functions, and performance
 statistics functions.

 Generic FM services are support for devices accessible through the BMS
 AMs, other Digital-developed AMs, or AMs developed and supported by
 third parties and users.

 Configuration Management Functions

 DECmcc BMS Configuration Management functions include both manual and
 automatic registration of managed objects, and support for user-defined
 domains (groups of managed objects). These functions are provided by
 the following DECmcc BMS FMs and services.

 The Registration FM is a generic FM that enables users to enter and
 manage data, identifying each managed object in a network environment.
 Such information includes object-instance data such as network names
 and addresses, and reference information such as device location, soft-
 ware revision levels, and contact names.

                                  4

 

 With the Registration FM, users have the option of selecting a local
 system-level repository or setting up a network-wide, globally-available
 naming service using Digital's Distributed Name Service (DECdns). With
 DECdns, users and applications can assign names to resources (such as
 nodes, bridges, files, domain names, etc.) and then use those resources
 without having to keep track of physical location or network address.
 The DECdns option also enables multiple DECmcc systems to share the
 same view of managed objects.

 The Domain FM is a generic FM that enables users to assign managed ob-
 jects into groups called domains. Domains are subsets of the managed
 object configuration that provide user-defined groups that can be based
 on equipment type (all DECnet nodes, all TCP/IP hosts, all LAN Bridges,
 etc.), geography (all objects within a LAN, building, campus, or sub-
 net), personnel levels, or any other user-defined object group. Do-
 mains can contain or refer to other domains and can be hierarchical
 or overlapping. Individual managed objects can be contained within mul-
 tiple domains.

 Autoconfiguration services automatically locate, register, and map man-
 aged objects by class. Supported classes include DECnet Phase IV nodes,
 TCP/IP hosts, and Digital FDDI devices and LAN Bridges. Users can de-
 fine domains for each class, and set network boundaries. The autocon-
 figuration functions can request network instance data from DECnet routers,
 IP gateways, and Bridge spanning trees. As devices are located and man-
 agement information gathered, the functions automatically map them in
 the appropriate user-defined domains and register management data in
 the MIR.

 Note: This function requires that the appropriate DECmcc Access Mod-
 ules be installed on the BMS system to register objects. The DECnet
 Phase IV, DECnet/OSI, and TCP/IP SNMP AMs are included in DECmcc BMS.
 DECmcc ELM Access Modules must be purchased separately to support LAN
 Bridge and FDDI autoconfiguration topology mapping. Refer to the DECmcc
 ELM SPDs (VMS: SPD 31.33.xx or ULTRIX: SPD 38.67.xx) for more infor-
 mation about the DECmcc ELM products.

 Alarm and Notification Services


                                  5

 

 DECmcc BMS alarm and notification services are provided by a combi-
 nation of Management Modules. These modules enable users to create alarm
 rules that can detect existing or potential network problems, and no-
 tification mechanisms for informing users when such problems occur or
 network events happen.

 The Alarms FM provides facilities for users to write rule-based ex-
 pressions (alarm rules) that use polled data or unsolicited event mes-
 sages to trigger alarms. Alarm rules can be written for any managed
 object or entity class for which there is corresponding Access Mod-
 ule protocol support (DECnet Phase IV NICE, SNMP, etc.). Alarm rules
 can be based on state changes, simple arithmetic expressions, or oc-
 currences (unsolicited event messages received through the appropri-
 ate Access Module). Alarm rules can be written for individual managed
 objects or wildcarding can be used to apply rules to all objects in
 a domain for a given object class.

 In addition to the standard DECmcc BMS notification functions described
 below, the Alarms FM allows for the execution of user-written command
 procedures. Such command procedures can be used to generate terminal
 broadcast or electronic mail messages, or automated procedures that
 a network manager or operator might implement when a particular alarm
 condition occurs.

 In combination with the Performance Analysis FM described below, the
 alarm functions can be used to create threshold alarms based on per-
 formance statistics for DECnet Nodes, TCP/IP hosts, or Digital LAN Bridges.
 In this way, alarm rules allow users to detect potential problems be-
 fore they become major network faults.

 The Notification FM and PM enable users to define the mechanisms used
 to alert operators when a particular network or system event has oc-
 curred. The functions recognize two types of events: configuration events,
 which are reported by an managed object or DECmcc Management Module;
 and alarm events, which are generated by the Alarms FM whenever a rule
 fires or encounters an error (i.e., an exception to the rule).




                                  6

 

 When an event occurs, the DECwindow/Iconic Map PM displays a color change
 on the appropriate object icon and a message in the Notification win-
 dow. Users can define the severity levels and select colors appropri-
 ate to the problem level. DECmcc Notification also enables users to
 customize event collection and storage in the following ways:

 o  Logging: Logging can be used to store received events to disk. Log
    files are automatically created and purged based on user-definable
    arguments.

 o  Filter: Users can filter received events based on the following cri-
    teria: managed object, domain, severity level, message text, or event
    /alarm type.

 o  Target: Notifications (icon color changes) can be redirected from
    the object that generates the event to the object that is the sub-
    ject of the event.

 o  Search: Users can search received notifications based on the fol-
    lowing criteria: any field, severity level, notification identi-
    fier, name or address, text description, time stamp, or domain name.

 o  View: Users can display a Real-time Graph of the number of noti-
    fications being displayed, collected and filtered; histogram of all
    notifications grouped by severity level; and the maximum notifi-
    cation buffer size.

 o  Change default start-up: Users can assign customized colors to the
    six notification severity levels.

 The Data Collector AM enables users to collect events from objects not
 directly managed by DECmcc. Users can create customized icons for any
 object not directly managed by DECmcc and include it in the Iconic Map.

 The Data Collector AM provides a programming interface and a command
 script interface. The programming interface allows users to include
 code in any application program to send events to DECmcc for display
 in the Iconic Map or Notification window. The command script inter-
 face enables users to use VMS DCL command procedures or ULTRIX shell
 scripts to send events to DECmcc for display in the Iconic Map or No-
 tification window.

                                  7

 

 Historical Data Collection and Data Export

 Historical Data Collection and Data Export functions are provided by
 the Historian and Export FMs. These generic FMs enable users to col-
 lect, time stamp, and store network data for use by other DECmcc FMs,
 such as the Performance Analyzer FM, and export data to external re-
 lational databases for addition processing and report writing.

 o  The Historian FM enables users to define the type of data to be col-
    lected, the managed objects or management applications from which
    the data is to be collected, and the collection interval.

 o  The Export FM, when used with a separate, external relational database
    and report writing tools, can be used to create customized network
    usage reports. The historical data recording and data export func-
    tions can also be used in combination with other DECmcc FMs to gather
    statistics, status, and configuration data.

 Note: Use of the Export FM requires that Rdb Runtime for VMS systems
 or ULTRIX/SQL for RISC/ULTRIX systems be installed on the target system-
 the system to which the data is to be exported.

 Performance Statistics Functions

 DECmcc BMS performance statistics are provided by the Performance Anal-
 ysis FM. It enables users to access real-time or historical perfor-
 mance statistics and reports on DECnet, Digital LAN Bridge, and TCP
 /IP objects. Sample error, traffic, and statistics reports are also
 provided.

 The Performance Analyzer FM provides data normalization and statis-
 tical functions for DECnet nodes, TCP/IP hosts, and Digital LAN Bridges.

 Note: LAN Bridge statistics require that the DECmcc ELM Access Modules
 be installed on DECmcc BMS. Counters for DECnet node and TCP/IP hosts
 are gathered by the DECnet AMs and TCP/IP SNMP AM respectively, which
 are included with DECmcc BMS.



                                  8

 

 Assuming that the appropriate Access Modules are installed, the Per-
 formance Analyzer FM supports the following objects/devices:

 o  DECnet Phase IV lines (DDCMP, Ethernet, X.25), circuits (DDCMP, Eth-
    ernet, X.25), and nodes (local and remote)

 o  DECnet/OSI end systems, datalinks (DDCMP, CSMACD, and HDLC), in-
    termediate systems (routing systems), routing ports, and routing
    circuits

 o  Bridge lines (LAN100, LAN150, LAN200, DECbridge 500, and DECbridge
    600)

 o  TCP/IP Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), Exterior Gate-
    way Protocol (EGP), Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP), IN-
    TERFACE (the network interface such as Ethernet), Internet Proto-
    col (IP), Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), User Datagram Pro-
    tocol (UDP), EGP Neighbor table, and SNMP child entity.

 The Performance Analyzer FM supports the following classes of network
 statistics:

 o  Throughput - the amount of data that is sent between two points in
    a specified unit of time

 o  Averages - such as Average Outbound Block Size and Average Outbound
    Message Size

 o  Overhead - the amount of control overhead present for circuits and
    lines

 o  Percents - percent of total traffic or resource availability

 o  Rates - the counts over a specified period of time

 o  Utilization - ratio of real or rated throughput to the actual through-
    put expressed as a percentage, such as Outbound Utilization and Sin-
    gle Destination Utilization

 o  Counts - the normalized value of counters

                                  9

 

 These statistics, like all other numeric attributes collected or gen-
 erated by DECmcc software, can be displayed as graphs or histograms
 in the Graphic Window that is part of the DECwindows/Iconic Map in-
 terface available with the DECmcc Director, BMS, and EMS products.

 Sample Reports are included with DECmcc BMS and are based on counters
 and statistics generated by the Performance Analyzer FM.

 Note: Data used for creating the sample reports must be exported to an
 external relational database using the Export FM. In addition, gen-
 erating and setting up the sample reports requires the following soft-
 ware products:

 o  For VMS: CDD/Plus, DATATRIEVE, and DECgraph

 o  For ULTRIX: INGRES[TM] Tools for SQL including: INGRES Base Tools
    (with Report-Writer[TM]) and INGRES/Visual-Graphics-Editor (VIGRAPH[TM]).

 The sample reports include: traffic, error, traffic summary, error sum-
 mary, and bandwidth utilization for DECnet Phase IV, DECnet/OSI and
 TCP/IP SNMP.

 DECmcc BMS Presentation Modules

 The DECmcc BMS includes two Presentation Modules. The DECwindows/Iconic
 Map PM provides a graphic interface with pull-down command and mon-
 itor windows that consistently present all managed objects and oper-
 ations. Consistent access is also provided by the Forms and Command
 Line PM.

 The Iconic Map PM with a DECwindows interface uses the common features
 of any DECwindows application. Capabilities specific to this presen-
 tation style include:

 o  Map windows that display the contents of a managed environment (for
    example, a domain) using icons to represent managed objects and their
    subordinate or child objects. Users can select icons representing
    managed objects and initiate management operations from a map win-
    dow. Several map windows can be displayed at one time, each dis-
    playing different views of domains of a managed environment.

                                 10

 

 o  A Navigation box and ViewPort window that enable users to view an
    entire network configuration map at one time. With the ViewPort fea-
    ture, users can navigate to, and select a particular portion of,
    the total network environment to display in detail in the Map win-
    dow.

 o  Management windows that enable users to select, perform, and view
    the results of management operations. Like map windows, several dif-
    ferent management windows can be displayed simultaneously.

 o  Graph windows that enable users to select and display real-time or
    historical numeric attributes, such as counters, graphs or histograms.

 o  A Toolbox window and other customization features that provide users
    with the ability to create, modify, or delete map icons, connect-
    ing lines, text, or other items in a map window. Users can create
    map icons, add geographic maps or other backdrops, and add customized
    icons to the Toolbox for retrieval and re-use.

 Forms and Command Line PM provides character cell access to DECmcc Di-
 rector function and access capabilities. The interface supports two
 modes, Command Line mode and Forms mode.

 Note: The Forms mode is not available on ULTRIX.

 The Command Line mode enables users to create names or mnemonics and
 use special symbols to reduce data entry and eliminate input errors.
 It supports command line recall and editing, abbreviation, online help,
 symbol substitution, use of control key sequences, line continuation,
 and the type-ahead function.

 Command Line mode also supports the use of scripts to automate fre-
 quently used DECmcc command sequences. Users can set up initializa-
 tion files through the Command Line mode for establishing defaults and
 executing startup directives. In addition, users can log any command
 to an output file for storage and review.




                                 11

 

 The Forms mode provides the basic features of the Command Line mode
 in addition to a scroll feature that enables users to save up to 500
 lines of output from management directives, scroll through the saved
 output, and create new directives based on previous input. The Forms
 mode also allows printing and logging of entries made to the output
 region.

 Both the Forms mode and the Command Line mode, as well as the Iconic
 Map interface, provide online, context-sensitive help.

 DECmcc BMS Extensibility

 DECmcc BMS is an extensible management platform to which other DECmcc
 software modules, optional packages, third party, or user-developed
 Management Modules can be added. For a list of Digital Management Mod-
 ules that can be added to the DECmcc BMS, refer to the Optional Soft-
 ware list below.

 Third parties and users can develop software modules for DECmcc Fam-
 ily Products to provide access to, and management functions for, any
 manageable object. Software and documentation for the development of
 integrated DECmcc modules are available as part of the DECmcc Devel-
 oper's Toolkit. For more information about the Developer's Toolkit,
 refer to SPD 32.49.xx.

 DECmcc BMS includes several utilities that enable on-site enrollment
 of Management Modules. Documentation required for third party module
 enrollment must be supplied by the module developer.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver, DECsystem, or DECstation con-
    figuration with an Ethernet controller as specified in the System
    Support Addendum (SSA 32.48.00-x).

 o  Appropriate Ethernet Controller for the System on which DECmcc BMS
    is installed.



                                 12

 

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For VMS:

 For Systems Using Terminals (no DECwindows interface):

 o  VMS Operating System

 For Workstations Running DECwindows:

 o  VMS Operating System (and necessary components of DECwindows)

 Layered Products:

 o  Rdb/VMS Runtime must be installed on the target system to which data
    is exported using the Export FM

 o  CDD/Plus, DATATRIEVE, and DECgraph are required to access and print
    the sample Performance Analyzer FM reports





















                                 13

 

 For ULTRIX:

 For Systems Using Terminals (no DECwindows interface):

 o  ULTRIX Operating System

 For Workstations (both with and without DECwindows):

 o  ULTRIX Worksystem Software

 Layered Products:

 o  ULTRIX/SQL must be installed on the system to which data is exported
    using the Export FM

 o  INGRES Tools for ULTRIX/SQL: INGRES Base Tools (including ReportWriter)
    and INGRES/Visual Graphics Editor (VIGRAPH) are required to access
    and print the Performance Analyzer FM sample reports

 Please refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.48.02-x) for re-
 quired versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 For VMS:

 o  DECnet VAX: if the Digital Distributed Name Service (DEDdns) is used,
    or if DECnet Phase IV or DECnet/OSI nodes are to be managed

 o  A Digital Distributed Name Service (DECdns) Server must be installed
    somewhere on the network to implement a global naming repository
    in place of the DECmcc local system naming repository.

 o  DEC TCP/IP Run-Time for VMS to support SNMP access

 o  DECmcc Extended LAN Manager (ELM) Access Modules

 o  DECmcc Fault Diagnostic Package

 o  DECmcc Terminal Server Access Module

                                 14

 

 For ULTRIX:

 o  DECnet ULTRIX: if the Digital Distributed Name Service for ULTRIX
    (DECdns for ULTRIX) is used, or if DECnet Phase IV or DECnet/OSI
    nodes are to be managed. DECnet/OSI is required for DECdns.

 o  A Digital Distributed Name Service (DECdns) Server on either VMS
    or ULTRIX must be installed somewhere on the network to implement
    a global naming repository in place of the DECmcc local system nam-
    ing repository

 o  DECmcc Extended LAN Manager (ELM) Access Modules

 o  DECmcc Fault Diagnostic Package

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 For VMS:
 Software Licenses: QL-YSUA*-**
 Software Media: QA-YSUA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YSUA*-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YSUA*-**

 For ULTRIX:
 Software Licenses: QL-GU5A*-**
 Software Media: QA-GU5A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-GU5A*-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-GU5A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support:

                                 15

 

 This layered product supports the VMS and ULTRIX License Management
 Facilities.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 use basis.

 Note: To use DECmcc BMS in a Diskless Management Services (DMS) envi-
 ronment, the DMS server must be a supported DECmcc BMS configuration,
 including a comparable DECmcc BMS license.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx), UL-
 TRIX Operating System (SPD 26.40.xx), or the License Management Fa-
 cility manual of the VMS or ULTRIX Operating System documentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 Network Management Services are also available. These include, but are
 not restricted to, the following:

 o  Network Management Operations Services

 o  Network Management Planning and Design Services

 o  Network Management Implementation Services

 o  Network Management Training

 For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Office.

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 

 [TM]INGRES, ReportWriter, and VIGRAPH are trademarks of INGRES
    Corporation.

                                 16

 


 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECstation, DECsystem, DECmcc, DEC-
    net, ULTRIX, ADVANTAGE-NETWORKS, Rdb/VMS, DECwindows, CDD/Plus,
    DATATRIEVE, DECgraph, TK, DDCMP, DECbridge, MicroVAX, VAX, VAX-
    cluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are trademarks
    of Digital Equipment Corporation.


































                                 17
