 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),   SPD
     31.88.01
                    Version 2.0

     DESCRIPTION

     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (DECmcc EMS) is a network
     management software product designed to provide network man-
     agers with a complete set of applications to manage wide area
     heterogeneous networks.

     The DECmcc Enterprise Management Station consolidates Digital
     Equipment Corporation's network management applications within
     a DECwindows environment and provides the capability of running
     all applications on a single system. It consists of products
     that are compliant with Digital's Enterprise Management Archi-
     tecture (EMA) as well as products that are not EMA-compliant.
     As such, DECmcc EMS is a transition vehicle to an EMA-compliant
     product set within a single software product.

     DECmcc EMS V2.0 consists of the following Digital network man-
     agement products:

     o  DECmcc Basic Management System (BMS)

     o  NMCC/DECnet Monitor

     o  LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM) VMS

     o  Extended LAN Management Software (DECelms)

     o  NMCC/VAX ETHERnim

     o  Terminal Server Manager (TSM)

                                  DIGITAL               November 1990

                                                          AE-PAW9B-TE

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     DECelms supersedes Remote Bridge Management Software (RBMS) in
     DECmcc EMS V2.0. Also new to DECmcc EMS V2.0 is the DECmcc Basic
     Management System (BMS), a product consisting of EMA-compliant
     software modules.

     In addition to containing the products listed above, DECmcc EMS
     supports the ability to install and run other VMS layered prod-
     ucts within a DECwindows environment. DECmcc EMS also provides
     access to non-Digital management products that are based on X11
     standards. Such products can be installed on the same or sepa-
     rate processors as DECmcc EMS for the purpose of consolidating
     interfaces on a single workstation display. Also included with
     the DECmcc EMS components is the Network Troubleshooting Guide.
     Available through the Bookreader application, the Network Trou-
     bleshooting Guide provides DECmcc EMS users with a systematic,
     on-line approach to solving some of the most common problems
     that occur on DECnet-VAX, DECnet-ULTRIX, Ethernet, and TCP/IP
     networks.

     DECmcc Basic Management System

     The DECmcc Basic Management System (BMS) is a set of EMA-
     compliant products based on an implementation of the EMA Di-
     rector Model. EMA, which is consistent with the the ISO/OSI
     management framework, defines a model for a management system.
     The EMA-compliant DECmcc software enables users to control,
     monitor, and test manageable objects (entities) in a network.

     The EMA Director Model defines a management platform, called
     a director, and cooperating but independent software compo-
     nents named "management modules." DECmcc BMS is comprised of a
     director and management modules of the following types.

     o  Access Modules (AMs) provide access to and information about
        different classes of entities.

     o  Function Modules (FMs) provide high-level management func-
        tions for managed entities.

                                     2

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     o  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user inter-
        face for Function modules.

     The core of the EMA-compliant DECmcc software is the Executive,
     which consists of a management kernel and a set of "function
     modules." The Executive also includes a Management Information
     Repository (MIR), which defines a consistent structure for, and
     storage of management data. Together they form DECmcc's operat-
     ing system-like environment for co-existence and interoperation
     of management modules.

     DECmcc BMS consists of EMA-compliant DECmcc Executive and Man-
     agement Modules, and is available both as a standalone product
     and as a component of DECmcc EMS. The following is a list of the
     EMA-compliant components and modules that comprise DECmcc BMS.

     o  Executive - Provides the environment in which DECmcc software
        management modules operate, allowing them to communicate
        with each other and with management information stored in the
        MIR. The DECmcc Executive consists of the management kernel,
        function modules, and the MIR.

        -  Management Kernel: The management kernel provides the
           operating environment and dispatching services for man-
           agement modules. The operating environment consists of
           a multi-threaded processing system, contained within VMS
           processes, along with a set of callable procedures.

        -  Executive Function Modules (Control FM and Registration
           FM): The Control FM makes available to users primitive
           directives for observation and control of entities in
           the network. It also makes data available to end-users
           for arbitrary entities, with arbitrary directives and
           attributes. The Control FM supports a pre-defined list of
           basic directives, plus a small set of generic directives
           that can be used for different purposes by different AMs.
           The Registration FM, in conjunction with VAX Distributed
           Name Service manages data identifying each entity in
           a network. It also defines and manages a set of common
           reference attributes for all entities. The Registration FM

                                     3

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


           uses VAX Distributed Name Service as the DECmcc instance
           repository, which allows multiple DECmcc systems to share
           the same view of entity configurations.

        -  Management Information Repository (MIR): The MIR is an
           integrated data base that contains definitions of entity
           classes, entity instances, entity attributes, and private
           or miscellaneous data required by individual management
           modules. The MIR provides storage and access routines for
           maintaining management information within DECmcc software.
           Most data stored in the MIR is structured according to the
           EMA Entity Model.

     o  DECnet Phase IV Access Module - Enables users to manage
        DECnet Phase IV entities and child entities such as nodes,
        circuits, lines, and objects. The DECnet Phase IV AM provides
        an access path to and information about the entities it
        supports. The DECnet Phase IV AM supports one global entity
        class, NODE4, and a number of child entity classes. Typical
        management operations include creating a NODE4 entity's
        knowledge of a child entity, displaying information about
        an entity, and modifying an entity's attributes.

     o  Ethernet Station Access Module - Provides looptest and dis-
        play of generic Ethernet devices that support: MOP REQID, MOP
        SYSID, MOP Counters, IEEE802.2 XID, or IEEE802.2 TEST. The
        Ethernet Station AM also provides Ethernet control and moni-
        toring functions that can be used by other management modules
        within the DECmcc system.

     o  Bridge Access Module - Enables users to control and monitor
        any Digital LANbridge 100, 150 or 200 in an extended LAN
        environment. In addition, this module provides an executable
        procedure to aid in the populating of the DECmcc software
        database with information contained in an existing Remote
        Bridge Management Software (RBMS) database.



                                     4

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     o  Sample Access Module - Included as part of the DECmcc BMS.
        The sample AM implements a single management directive, the
        SHOW directive, for the DECnet Phase IV node entity and as-
        sociated line subentity. The SHOW directive displays various
        Characteristic, Status, and Counter attributes for each en-
        tity. The Sample Access Module implements a SHOW and TEST
        management directive to manage the Access Module itself to
        illustrate the "management of management" concept. Includ-
        ing the Sample AM with the DECmcc BMS is intended to ensure
        proper end-user licensing of access modules developed using
        source code provided in the DECmcc Toolkit (SPD 32.49.xx).

     o  Alarms Function Module - Provides the ability to notify
        network managers that alarm conditions have been detected in
        the network. The DECmcc Alarms FM can detect alarm conditions
        about any entity that has an appropriate access module. When
        an alarm condition is detected, a user- written command
        procedure is queued for execution. For example, it may be
        useful to write command procedures that trigger the local
        system's mail facility to deliver alarm messages. The DECmcc
        Alarms FM includes sample rules for alarm conditions and
        sample command procedures that can be used directly (e.g., to
        log, broadcast and mail alarms) or used as examples that can
        be modified.

     o  Command-Line Presentation Module - Supports a terminal based
        user interface, using command-line input and output tech-
        niques. It is a command-line interface compliant with Digi-
        tal's NCL, the command-line syntax used for DECnet/OSI Phase
        V network management commands. The Command-Line Presentation
        Module is available from any terminal or workstation compat-
        ible with Digital's VT220 terminal. It supports command-line
        recall and editing, abbreviation support, on-line help, sym-
        bol substitution, support of control key sequences, line
        continuation, and typeahead. The user interface structure
        also allows a VMS DCL process to be "spawned."



                                     5

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     o  Forms Interface Presentation Module - An extension of the
        command-line interface that provides a screen-based user
        interface, using forms and list input and output techniques.
        It is available from any terminal or workstation compatible
        with Digital's VT220 terminal. The screen format contains two
        regions. One region is for entering data to input fields for
        issuing DECmcc commands or "directives." The other region is
        for viewing data resulting from DECmcc directives.

     o  Utilities - Several utilities are included that enable the
        on-site enrollment of management modules not provided with
        the DECmcc BMS. Documentation required for such enrollment is
        provided by the module developer. The utilities are:

        -  Dictionary Administrator Program (DAP) Utility

        -  Parse Table Builder (PTB) Utility

        -  Test Bed Driver (TBD) Utility

        -  Help File Builder (HFB) Utility

     The DECmcc Developer's Toolkit Reference Manual (order number
     AA-PD5MA-TE) describes each of the tools in detail.

     NMCC/DECnet Monitor

     NMCC/DECnet Monitor is a network monitoring application for
     Phase IV/IV+ DECnet network nodes. It runs as a layered ap-
     plication on VMS Systems and does not require any additional
     hardware or software on the remote DECnet nodes to be monitored.
     NMCC/DECnet Monitor collects and monitors data concerning the
     DECnet network. NMCC/DECnet Monitor enables the user to store,
     distribute, analyze, and evaluate the data into useful and com-
     prehensible information, and to present the data either as a
     screen display or as a printed report.

     NMCC/DECnet Monitor consists of software modules, the Kernel and
     User Interface, which combine to form a comprehensive monitoring
     system. The central component of NMCC/DECnet Monitor is the
     Kernel, a data acquisition process, which collects data from

                                     6

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     the network using polling and/or event logging. Polling can
     be used to obtain status, characteristics, and traffic/error
     counters. Event logging can be set up to cause remote nodes to
     log events automatically to the kernel, including status changes
     and traffic/error counters as they occur.

     The network manager has full control over which nodes are
     polled, the polling rates, and which remote nodes log events.
     The Kernel processes the raw data and creates a log file of sta-
     tistical data which is then available to the NMCC/DECnet Reports
     subsystem for the production of network reports.

     Through access to the log files, users can gather the following
     reports: network summary, system, and line error reports; net-
     work summary, system, and line traffic reports; configuration
     reports.

     The User Interface subsystem provides an easy-to-use command in-
     terface to the NMCC/DECnet Monitor. It provides on-line graphic
     and lexical video displays of selected error statistics, traffic
     statistics, and status information. The displays are designed
     hierarchically so that the user can select the network compo-
     nents, information types, and levels of detail in a consistent
     and easy to use manner. The graphic displays include histograms,
     linear scales, and a network map.

     The User Interface subsystem also provides the user with the
     capability to build and manipulate various databases maintained
     by NMCC/DECnet Monitor, including a network component reference
     database. This contains a description of all nodes and physical
     links in the network. It includes such details as CPU type,
     type and version of operating system, name and telephone number
     of system manager, and name and telephone number of customer
     service contacts. Display commands are provided to retrieve this
     information. The user interface to these commands is consistent
     with the operational interface of the product.

     LAN Traffic Monitor VMS

                                     7

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     The LAN Traffic Monitor VMS (LTM) is the software portion of
     a fully distributed monitor that can support the capture and
     presentation of traffic data from an extended Ethernet. A LAN
     Bridge 100 or LAN Bridge 150, downline loaded with monitoring
     software, is attached to the Ethernet cable and transmits in-
     formation to a VMS layered application software program located
     on any VAX in the extended LAN. Multiple users, from different
     nodes on the extended Ethernet, may access the traffic data.
     LAN Traffic Monitor also works with Chipcom's Broadband Bridges
     called Ethermodem III Bridges.

     LAN Bridge hardware can run either as a LAN Traffic Monitor
     or as a LAN Bridge, i.e., the primary building block of the
     Extended LAN (Local Area Network) architecture. An Extended LAN
     is a collection of LANs that are interconnected and logically
     appear as one large Local Area Network.

     Note that when a bridge is used as a monitoring device or lis-
     tener, it does not function as a bridge. Users can remotely
     switch a bridge between monitoring and standard bridge modes
     using Digital's DECelms (Extended LAN Management Software).

     With the LAN Bridge designed to work at full Ethernet speed,
     the LAN Traffic Monitor can provide real-time data on Ethernet
     LAN throughput and utilization, allowing a customer to actively
     monitor their Ethernet usage. The ability to collect data on any
     protocol type (i.e., LAT, 802.3, DECnet, TCP/IP, etc.) on the
     Ethernet is provided.

     LAN Traffic Monitor contains the LTM Listener software (which
     counts and classifies Ethernet traffic using a LAN Bridge as a
     monitoring device) and the LTM User Interface (which collects
     and displays data received from the LTM Listener).

     The LTM Listener periodically reports traffic statistics to
     the LTM User Interface located on a VAX host. The LTM User
     Interface receives unsolicited Ethernet datagrams generated
     by the LTM Listener, and through the menu structure, the user
     can also ask the LTM Listener for additional data not found

                                     8

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     in the unsolicited messages. A single LTM host can be used in
     conjunction with multiple LTM listeners.

     The LTM User Interface performs the necessary data reduction
     and presents the statistics in logical groupings. Summary dis-
     plays, which are presented in tabular format include Network
     Traffic, Top Ten Talkers, and Throughput and Utilization. LTM
     also displays Lists of Nodes, Multicast Addresses, Protocols
     Used by Nodes, Node Traffic by Protocol Type, Multicast Traffic
     by Protocol Type, and Protocol Type Traffic.

     In addition, LAN utilization based on the most recent traffic
     data received from the LTM Listener may be displayed graphically
     in intervals of one, four, eight, twelve, twenty-four, or forty-
     eight hours.

     DECelms

     DECelms (Extended Local Area Network Management Software) en-
     ables users to configure, manage, monitor, control, and observe
     any LAN Bridge and FDDI Wiring Concentrator in an extended Eth-
     ernet/802.3 LAN and FDDI network environment. Supported devices
     include Digital's LAN Bridge 100, LAN Bridge 150, LAN Bridge
     200, DECbridge 500, DECconcentrator 500, METROwave, and Chip-
     com's Ethermodem Broadband Bridge. DECelms is comprised of VAX
     host software and corresponding firmwear that resides in the LAN
     Bridges and FDDI DECconcentrators.

     A superset of RBMS V2.0 functions, DECelms provides remote
     management capabilities for FDDI and Ethernet devices. Using
     DECelms, users can:

     o  Observe, monitor, and control interoperable FDDI and Ethernet
        networks.

     o  Display and modify a devices, lines, physical ports, and
        forwarding database characteristics.

     o  Enable and disable lines and physical ports.

                                     9

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     o  Automatically build a host registry of all reachable FDDI
        DECconcentrators and LAN Bridges within extended LAN and FDDI
        environments.

     o  Automatically or manually poll the devices stored in the host
        registry for faults, errors, and changed information.

     o  Display error conditions to an alarms window and record
        detailed information in an error log file.

     o  Process the logfile keying off time or type of faults.

     o  Use standard VMS utilities like print, type, search, etc., on
        the ASCII formatted versions of the DECelms error log file.

     o  Display data-link counters, status and characteristics.

     o  Modify parameters such as operational state, forwarding
        database, and spanning tree characteristics.

     o  Remotely invoke a device's self-test capabilities.

     o  Associate ASCII names with specific device physical addresses
        for ease of use in management commands.

     o  Display the logical FDDI network topology through ring map-
        ping.

     DECelms also provides simultaneous access by more than one
     user, supports command line recall, and password protection
     for setable parameters for Digital LAN Bridge 150s, 200s, 500s,
     and FDDI DECconcentrators.

     NMCC/VAX ETHERnim

     NMCC/VAX ETHERnim is a network management application that
     provides the network manager with a tool to gather information
     about Ethernet nodes, verify reachability of nodes, provide a
     graphical display of local area network topology and monitor
     Ethernet traffic.

                                    10

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     NMCC/VAX ETHERnim consists of two categories of software, one of
     which must be installed on a VMS system set up as the Host, and
     the other which can be optionally installed on Target systems
     running VMS. In this context, the Host is defined as the node on
     which the NMCC/VAX ETHERnim application runs, while the Target
     systems are those DECnet nodes on the Ethernet segments which
     are being tested at the User (task) level. The optional software
     installed on the Target system is referred to as the Remote
     Files.

     The Host software requires Phase IV DECnet software on a VMS
     system. When this software has been installed, the network
     manager has the ability to:

     o  Build a permanent database containing basic information
        about each node directly connected to the Ethernet local
        area network through user commands and automatic procedures.

     o  Manually construct and maintain a topological view of the
        network, including transparent network devices (e.g., DEMPR,
        DELNI, DEREP).

     o  Test the Ethernet network to help isolate and identify prob-
        lems.

     o  Test the communications path to each node up to the DNA ap-
        plication layer by performing a loopback test to a specified
        user account. This feature is available only for VMS Target
        systems.

     o  Monitor the network to determine which nodes are the top
        talkers and which nodes are the top listeners; sort/display
        traffic by protocol type or multi-cast address; focus on
        traffic to/from a specified node.

     o  Perform information access to properly configured DECnet
        nodes on the Ethernet to determine the remote nodes's system
        type, hardware configuration, and software configuration.

     Terminal Server Manager

                                    11

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     Terminal Server Manager VMS (TSM) software allows suitably
     privileged users at a VAX host to control and observe termi-
     nal servers anywhere in the extended local area network. TSM
     provides centralization and increased flexibility in configur-
     ing, monitoring, and controlling Digital's family of terminal
     servers.

     Among the features supported by TSM are:

     o  Support for the 3270 Option Software for the CXM04 line card.
        This line card provides capability of connectivity of 3270
        class of terminals to systems on Ethernet.

     o  Keyboard mapping, which enables the terminal server manager
        to customize 3270 keyboard tables supplied with the 3270
        Option Software by changing the way individual 3270 keyboard
        keys are mapped to Digital's VT220 keys.

     o  Wildcarding, which extends the wildcarding capability for
        server names by allowing a wildcard character such as * and %
        to replace a server name any place it appears in the syntax.

     o  A management directory that contains the name, Ethernet
        address, terminal server type, and other fields for each
        server to be managed. Through the TSM directory, the user
        need only to refer to the name of the server in order to gain
        access.

     o  The ability to define logical groups of servers. A command
        can then be executed for all servers in the partition. TSM
        provides a predefined partition called ALL that includes all
        servers in the directory.

     o  Access to and manipulation of the database associated with
        each server within its jurisdiction, including their charac-
        teristics and parameters.

     o  Management of the volatile characteristics for all terminal
        server types.

                                    12

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     o  Management of permanent NVRAM characteristics for the DEC-
        server 100, DECserver 200, and MUXserver 100. For the Eth-
        ernet Terminal Server and DECserver 500, TSM modifies the
        permanent attributes contained within the image files which
        are down-line loaded.

     o  Automated updates of the DECnet database for servers to match
        the DECnet related information in the management directory.
        Users need no longer employ a separate DSVCONFIG or TSVNCP
        configuration program.

     o  TSM server and directory commands may be issued as DCL com-
        mands; the syntax follows DCL conventions.

     o  A USE command to allow selection of the server or servers
        to be managed or the directory to be referenced. A single
        server, a user specified group of servers (a partition),
        or all servers known via the management directory can be
        selected with the USE command.

     o  Maintenance of command files outside of TSM (e.g., by use
        of a VMS editor). This command file support allows values
        of characteristics to be stored on the host, effectively
        creating a copy of the permanent database that may be used to
        configure new servers. Server maintenance is also enhanced by
        allowing the terminal server to be easily box swapped, and
        parameters reset. Up to eight parameters may be passed to TSM
        command files. Additionally, command files may operate on a
        single server, on a logical group (a partition) of servers or
        on all servers.

     o  Trouble shooting within the terminal server network through
        the ability ability to centrally read traffic status and
        counters in addition to error status and counters. With the
        PASTHRU command, the user can also connect directly to the
        server without using TSM, allowing isolation of problems
        between TSM and the server.

     Network Troubleshooting Guide

                                    13

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     The Network Troubleshooting Guide provides an on-line, system-
     atic approach to solving any network problem. Available through
     the Bookreader application, its text can be displayed in a win-
     dow within a DECmcc Management Station environment. The Network
     Troubleshooting Guide gives specific step-by-step instructions
     for solving some of the most common network problems that occur
     on DECnet-VAX, DECnet-ULTRIX, Ethernet, and TCP/IP networks.

     The Network Troubleshooting Guide incorporates information from
     various sources into a single manual, minimizing the documenta-
     tion required for solving network problems.

     The Network Troubleshooting Guide covers:

     o  Background information on DECnet and TCP/IP networks.

     o  How to use a standard troubleshooting methodology to solve
        any network problem.

     o  How to use network tools such as DECmcc Management Station
        for ULTRIX, Network Control Program (NCP), NMCC/DECnet Moni-
        tor, NMCC/VAX Ethernim, and LAN Traffic Monitor (LTM).

     o  How to use ULTRIX commands such as netstat, ping, and uerf.

     o  How to use log files and counters to gather information for
        problem solving.

     o  How to trace a network path to isolate the source of a prob-
        lem.

     o  How and when to perform loopback tests.

     o  In explicit step-by-step instructions, how to solve nearly 30
        of the most common network problems, including:

        o  Network partner exited (DECnet networks)

        o  Permission denied (TCP/IP networks)

        o  LAT Print Queue Problems (Ethernet networks)

     INSTALLATION

                                    14

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     Only experienced customers should attempt the installation
     of this product. Digital recommends that all other customers
     purchase Digital's installation and consulting services. These
     services provide for the planning, implementation (product
     setup and startup) and customer orientation on the product by
     an experienced Digital Software Specialist. Customers should
     consult their local Digital offices to obtain information on
     installation and start-up services available in their locations.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.88.01-x).

     LANbridge 100/150 for LTM Listener

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

     For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

     VMS Operating System
     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Rdb/VMS (Run-Time Option)
     DEC GKS for VMS (Run-Time Option)
     VAX Distributed Name Service (must be installed somewhere in
     network)

     For Workstations Running DECwindows:

     VMS Operating System (and necessary components of DECwindows)
     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Rdb/VMS (Run-time Option)
     DEC GKS for VMS (Run-time Option)
     VAX Distributed Name Service (must be installed somewhere in
     network)

     *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 31.88.01-x) for
        availability and versions of required software and for infor-
        mation regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

     ORDERING INFORMATION

                                    15

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     Software Licenses: QL-YFVA*-**
     Software Media: QA-YFVA*-**
     Software Documentation: QA-YFVA*-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-YFVA*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

     License units for this product are allocated on a flat-price
     basis, regardless of User/Activity or processor type.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.











                                    16

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0


     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

     Digital Network Services

     To assist you in planning, designing, implementing, managing and
     evolving your network, Digital offers a comprehensive portfolio
     of network management services. These address, but are not
     restricted to, the following:

     o  Network Planning and Design

     o  Physical Network Implementation

     o  Network Start-up and Implementation

     o  Network Performance Consulting

     o  Fault and Configuration Management

     o  Network Products Training

     o  Shared NETsupport

     o  NETsupport

     For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Of-
     fice. SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]   Chipcom is a registered trademark of the Chipcom Corpora-
           tion.

     [TM]  Ethermodem is a trademark of the Chipcom Corporation.

                                    17

 


     DECmcc Enterprise Management Station (EMS),         SPD 31.88.01
     Version 2.0



     [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, DECmcc, Ethernet, ETHERnim, DECnet,
           RBMS, DECelms, VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver,
           and VAXcluster are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corpo-
           ration.


































                                    18
