


   Software Product Description
   _________________________________________________________________________
   PRODUCT: DECwindows Motif/Hebrew Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS   SPD 46.55.03



   This Software Product Description describes the following two products

   o  DECwindows Motif/Hebrew Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX

   o  DECwindows Motif/Hebrew Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha

   The Description section describes features common to both products.
   Any differences in product features are explicitly indicated.

   DESCRIPTION

   DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for OpenVMS is the Hebrew language variant support
   for the base DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS. The product provides Hebrew
   characters input/output support.

   The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user interface
   to the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating systems. This interface
   allows users to interact with OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha using a 
   point-and-click technique. DECwindows includes a set of integrated desktop 
   applications that demonstrate the ease of use of this user interface and 
   provides OpenVMS users with a base set of desktop tools.

   DECwindows Motif/Hebrew Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha delivers the
   New Desktop environment for OpenVMS Alpha systems, which is derived
   from the CDE (Common Desktop Environment) technology. CDE provides and
   defines a consistent user interface for end users and a consistent de-
   velopment environment for application developers across multiple plat-
   forms.

   The graphical user interface that was provided in previous versions
   of DECwindows Motif/Hebrew is still available and is referred to as
   the DECwindows desktop. The DECwindows desktop is the only desktop pro-
   vided for OpenVMS VAX. On OpenVMS Alpha, the installation procedure
   gives users the choice of installing one or both desktops and asks which
   desktop should be started by default. If both desktops are installed,
   the user can switch desktops by restarting DECwindows.


                                                            April 1997

 






   Both the New Desktop and the DECwindows desktop are based on OSF/Motif[R].
   Motif is a graphical user interface that is widely acknowledged as the
   industry standard.

   The DECwindows desktop provides two window managers: the Motif Window
   Manager and the XUI Window Manager. Users can switch easily between the 
   two window managers. The DECwindows desktop productivity applications 
   use the Motif toolkit, but they also work with the XUI Window Manager.

   The DECwindows Motif/Hebrew Version 1.2-4 layered product provides both
   run-time and programming support for the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit (OSF/Motif
   Release 1.2.5) and the X Consortium's specification for the X Window
   System[TM], Version 11, Release 5 (X11 R5), and provides run-time sup-
   port for the OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3 and XUI toolkits and X11 R4.

   Programs developed for the OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2 and 1.2.3 toolkits
   that were provided in previous versions of DECwindows Motif can
   be run under the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit. This means that users can run
   XUI and Motif applications, including native applications and, on OpenVMS
   Alpha systems, translated applications. (See the Translated Image 
   Environment section of this SPD for more information about running 
   translated applications).

   X Window System standards supported as part of DECwindows Motif include 
   the X11 network protocol, a base set of workstation fonts, the C language 
   binding for the Xlib programming library, and the C language binding for 
   the X Toolkit library.

   Support of the X11 network protocol in the client library and display
   server components provides the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating 
   systems with the ability to interoperate with other X11-compliant
   systems in a distributed fashion.

   DECwindows supports the client/server distribution inherent in the X
   Window System. This client/server model allows X Window System clients
   to run on one node and display output to another node, using a transport 
   to communicate between the nodes. The DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 
   for OpenVMS product provides four transport interfaces: local



                                    2

 






   shared memory, DECnet, TCP/IP (using Digital's TCP/IP Services for Open-
   VMS product or third-party products such as MultiNet[R] and Wollongong), 
   and LAT. Users can also provide their own transport subsystems and 
   transport interfaces.

   To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows Motif based lay-
   ered product or X application runs on or can communicate with DECwindows 
   Motif for OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha systems, consult the application's 
   Software Product Description.

   THE NEW DESKTOP

   Packaged with DECwindows Motif/Hebrew Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha 
   is the New Desktop environment, which is derived from CDE (Common 
   Desktop Environment) technology. CDE provides a complete desktop
   environment based on the CDE Motif 1.0 toolkit (OSF/Motif Release 1.2.5)
   and X11 R5.

   The New Desktop focuses on the user interface and end-user aspects of
   CDE technology. The New Desktop requires OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 or
   higher.

   The installation procedure asks users to select the preferred desktop. 
   This choice determines whether the DECwindows Motif login box or
   the New Desktop login box appears at startup. After installation, the
   user can switch desktops anytime.

   Existing OSF/Motif R1.2.3 applications do not need to be recompiled
   or relinked to run in the CDE environment. In addition, it is possible 
   to achieve basic integration of existing applications into the CDE
   environment without making changes to the application source code.

   The following CDE components are included in this release of the New
   Desktop:

   o  Applications

      -  dtlogin: Login Manager, dtgreet

      -  dthello: Screen between Login Manager and Window Manager

                                    3

 






      -  dtscreen: Screen saver displays

      -  dtpad: Editor

      -  dtclock: Clock

      -  dtsession: Session Manager

      -  dtstyle: Style Manager

      -  dtwm: Window Manager, Control Panel

      -  dtfile: File Manager, Application Manager

      -  dtcalc: Calculator

      -  dticon: Icon Editor

      -  dtcreate: Action database entry creation tool

      -  dthelpview: Help Viewer

      -  Security options: New Style Manager control for setting and re-
         viewing authorized users allowed to display applications on the
         local workstation

      -  Keyboard Selection dialog box

      -  Input Methods Selection dialog box

      -  Save/restore support for DECwindows applications

      -  dthelpgen: utility for creating a help volume for display from
         the Front Panel Help Viewer

      -  dthelptag: compiles HelpTag source files into a run-time help
         file

      -  dximageview

   o  Libraries

      -  dthelp: Help utility functions

      -  dtsvc: Assorted utility routines

      -  dtwidget: CDE custom widgets

                                    4

 






   The following CDE components are replaced by existing DECwindows Motif 
   applications for this release of the New Desktop:

   o  dtmail - Replaced by DECwindows Mail

   o  dtcm - Replaced by DECwindows Calendar

   o  dtterm - Replaced by DECwindows DECterm

   o  Print Manager - Replaced by DECwindows Print widget

   The following CDE components are not included in this release of the
   New Desktop:

   o  Application Builder

   o  ToolTalk- ICCCM transfer mechanisms are implemented to emulate certain 
      ToolTalk functions internally, but ToolTalk messaging services
      APIs are not available to develop against.

   o  Windowing Korn shell

   o  Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) support

   Basic Components

   The DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for OpenVMS user environment consists of
   four basic components:

   o  Session Manager

      Session Manager provides the top-level user interface to a DECwindows 
      workstation. From Session Manager, users can start applications, 
      customize their session, and perform security management.
      Session Manager also lets users specify the language of the user
      interface for supported DECwindows applications if they have ordered, 
      installed, and are licensed to use the appropriate DECwindows 
      Motif for OpenVMS language variant kits.

      For more information about which DECwindows Motif desktop appli-
      cations have translated user interfaces, refer to the SPD for that
      language variant. The DECwindows Motif language variant SPDs also

                                    5

 






      contain information on specific local hardware and software support 
      provided in the language variant kits.

   o  Window Manager

      The Window Manager lets users control the size and placement of win-
      dows. The OSF/Motif Window Manager is provided as the default window 
      manager; users can choose instead to work with the DECwindows XUI 
      Window Manager. The window manager can be chosen by an individual 
      user or by a system manager for an entire system.

   o  FileView

      FileView, a graphical interface to the OpenVMS file system, allows
      users to navigate the file system and to perform operations on files.

   o  DECterm

      The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users with a tra-
      ditional character-cell interface for existing OpenVMS features and
      applications. It is a VT320 terminal emulator, which simulates also
      the Hebrew functionality of VT100-, VT220- and VT320-class terminals. 
      It supports ReGIS and sixel, but is not fully VT340 compatible. 
      Programs written for VT52-, VT100-, VT220-, or VT320-class terminals 
      and using OpenVMS terminal driver features operate without modification 
      in this workstation window. DECterm also provides workstation-oriented 
      features, such as mouse-based cursor positioning, variable screen 
      sizes, and cutting and pasting of text between DECterm and other 
      DECwindows applications. Many programs can also use these features 
      without modification.

   Desktop Productivity Applications

   DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for OpenVMS provides a set of integrated desk-
   top applications that employ a common look and feel to help users eas-
   ily master their computing environment.





                                    6

 






   All desktop applications listed in the DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for Open-
   VMS V1.2-3 Software Product Description (SPD 46.55.02), except LinkWorks
   Manager, are also available in DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for OpenVMS Ver-
   sion 1.2-4. However, these applications are not available in Hebrew
   user interface. Hebrew text input is supported only in Cardfiler, Paint
   and Calendar applications.

   The following desktop applications are available with DECwindows Motif 
   /Hebrew Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS:

   o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that are dis-
      tributed and stored on line. Improved ability to print from Bookreader
      has been added in DECwindows Motif/Hebrew Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS.

   o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator.

   o  Calendar - A personal time management system.

   o  Cardfiler - A desktop card index or flip file, similar to an online 
      address or phone book.

   o  Clock - An analog and/or digital clock with an alarm.

   o  CDA Viewer - A tool for reading documents containing compound text
      (including Display PostScript text), graphics, and image data on
      DECwindows workstations. Using CDA Viewer, DECwindows workstation
      users can view a processed Display PostScript file that looks the
      same as output from any of Digital's PostScript printers. You can
      view Display PostScript output with the CDA Viewer and DECwindows
      Mail.

   o  Computer-based instruction - An online tutorial for novice Motif
      users; users can learn how to use the mouse and perform other sim-
      ple operations with Motif.







                                    7

 






   o  DECsound - An easy-to-use application that lets you play recorded
      messages, record audio messages, mail recorded messages, and in-
      clude recorded audio messages in compound documents.

      Note that DECsound is available for use on these TURBOchannel sys-
      tems only:

      -  DEC 3000 Model 400 series

      -  DEC 3000 Model 500 series

      -  DEC 3000 Model 700 series

      -  DEC 3000 Model 900 series

      -  VAXstation 4000 Models VLC, 60, and 90

      Please also note that DECsound may not be supported in future ver-
      sions of OpenVMS and DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS.

   o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the OpenVMS Mail facility.

   o  Message window - A window that displays system messages, such as
      new mail notification or system manager messages.

   o  Notepad - A simple text editor.

   o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor.

   o  Print Screen - A tool for capturing images on the screen. Images
      can be printed directly or saved to a file.

   o  Puzzle - A game of numbered puzzle tiles.

   The DECW$EXAMPLES directory in the DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for OpenVMS 
   product supplies several audio images (such as animal sounds, laughter, 
   and various alarm tones) that can be played back using DECsound
   on VAXstation 4000 series and DEC 3000 series workstations. The CDA
   Viewer can be used to view documents that contain audio images. In ad-
   dition, DECwindows Mail can be configured to include the audio editor 
   for sending and receiving voice mail messages. On OpenVMS VAX systems, 
   ALL-IN-1 MAIL can be configured to include the audio editor for sending 
   and receiving voice mail messages.

                                    8

 






   Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 Browser

   DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS includes Spyglass Enhanced
   Mosaic Version 2.1, a state-of-the-art World Wide Web browser that re-
   places the NCSA Mosaic browser.

   Mosaic is a World Wide Web browser that lets users navigate and access 
   information on the Internet. With Mosaic, you can search, retrieve,
   display, store, and forward data using the Internet. Mosaic functions
   in conjunction with the World Wide Web environment, which is a col-
   lection of information servers.

   Mosaic is installed as part of the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for
   OpenVMS systems product installation. Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 
   2.1 is a fully supported component and installs in SYS$SYSTEM.
   Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 runs only on OpenVMS Version 6.1
   and higher.

   Together with the Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 browser, an NCSA
   sample implementation of Mosaic is provided on the VAX VMSINSTAL kit.
   It only installs on systems prior to Version 6.1. The NCSA Mosaic browser
   is provided as sample, "as is" software to introduce the Internet and
   help users get started using a World Wide Web viewer. Because the NCSA
   Mosaic browser is only a sample implementation, it is placed with the
   other sample software in the DECW$UTILS directory.

   To access the Internet with Mosaic, you must install Digital TCP/IP
   Services for OpenVMS. If Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS is not
   installed, you can display the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Home Page,
   but you cannot access topics on other Internet servers.

   Spyglass Enhanced Mosaic Version 2.1 provides:

   o  Support for popular HTML extensions: tables, text and image align-
      ment, text wrap, colored text, backgrounds

   o  Progressive display of inline JPEG and GIF files

   o  Built-in JPEG and GIF external viewers

   o  Support for client-side image maps

                                    9

 






   o  Language negotiation

   o  Localization for French and German

   o  TCP connection:

      -  Default: single-connection, keep alive

      -  Optional multiple simultaneous connections

   o  Autogeneration of HTTP prefix

   o  Mail-to capabilities

   o  Built-in payment systems

   o  Hotlist

   o  History list

   o  Intuitive toolbar

   o  Support for FTP and Gopher protocols

   o  Multiple style sheets

   o  Over 30 user-selectable preferences

   Netscape Navigator

   Each DECwindows Motif V1.2-3 and V1.2-4 license permits the use of the
   Netscape Navigator V2.02 for OpenVMS on a single CPU. The Netscape Nav-
   igator is distributed on the Internet Product Suite CD-ROM kit (part
   number QA-5CNAA-H8).

   For a description of the functionality of the Netscape Navigator, see
   the Internet Product Suite guide, distributed with the Internet Prod-
   uct Suite CD-ROM kit. The Netscape Navigator runs on OpenVMS VAX V6.1
   or later and on OpenVMS Alpha V6.1 or later.

   The Netscape Navigator is supported on a best effort basis by Digital 
   Equipment Corporation. Availability of patches and other software
   corrections may be limited. Support is NOT available from Netscape for
   this particular version of the Navigator.

                                    10

 






   Support for MIT Utility Programs

   Several MIT utility programs, bitmaps, and the Miscellaneous Utilities 
   Library from the MIT X11 Release 4 and 5 distribution are included
   in the DECW$UTILS directory of the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS lay-
   ered product. The sources and images for a subset of these MIT util-
   ities are included. The XPR (X Print) utility, which allows users to
   capture and print the contents of windows, is provided with DECwindows 
   Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha and OpenVMS VAX. A complete list 
   of available MIT programs is included in the DECwindows Motif Version 
   1.2-4 for OpenVMS Release Notes.

   DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for OpenVMS Help System

   The DECwindows Motif help system uses the familiar Bookreader inter-
   face to display help and retrieve help information. This help system
   includes a table of contents and cross-referencing through the use of
   hotspots.

   The DECwindows desktop applications use the DECwindows Motif help system. 
   When invoking help, either from a help menu or from context-sensitive
   help, Bookreader is started and a help topic is displayed.

   Apart from some basic topics which were translated into Hebrew, all
   the help text is in English. The Hebrew help text is available only
   via the help widget, and cannot be used with Bookreader.

   Local Language Support

   DECwindows Motif is available in many local languages. Please contact
   your local Digital office for the latest information on availability
   of options and supported multilingual configurations. For more details
   on the language variants, refer to the specific language variant SPDs.
   Refer also to the Ordering Information and Software Licensing sections
   of this SPD. Please note that until language variants for DECwindows
   Motif Version 1.2-4 become available, you should continue to use DECwin-
   dows Motif Version 1.2-3 if you require local language support.




                                    11

 






   Programming Support

   The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS environment includes an extensive set
   of programming libraries and tools for use by application developers.
   The libraries are provided in the form of shareable images. While CDE
   Motif 1.0 (OSF/Motif Release 1.2.5) programming support is provided,
   OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3, Release 1.2.2, Release 1.2.3, and XUI pro-
   gramming support are not.

   Three categories of libraries are provided:

   o  Standard X Window System libraries, such as Xlib and the Intrinsics 
      (X Toolkit)

   o  CDE Motif 1.0 Toolkit support for developing applications using the
      Motif user interface style

   o  Digital added-value libraries that give users additional capabil-
      ities:

      -  Digital Extensions to OSF/Motif (DXm)

      -  CDA support

      -  Display PostScript support (XDPS)

      -  Porting tools for changing applications from the XUI interface
         to the OSF/Motif user interface

   Components from each of these areas can be used in any combination to
   address the needs of applications. These components can also use the
   tools from a variety of programming languages.

   Motif language bindings are provided for the following programming lan-
   guages:

   o  Digital Fortran for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

   o  DEC Pascal for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

   o  DEC C for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha

                                    12

 






   In addition, C header files supplied by the OSF have been modified to
   work with DEC C++. Pascal and Fortran bindings are included in the DECwin-
   dows Motif kit; OSF/Motif "strongly typed" language bindings for Ada
   are available in the DEC Ada for OpenVMS (VAX and Alpha) layered product.

   For additional programming support, the
   DECW$EXAMPLES directory includes the following updated programming ex-
   amples:

   o  Motif widget set examples

   o  X11 R4 and X11 R5 programming examples (Xlib examples)

   o  Digital supplied examples

   Programming Support Libraries

   The following sections describe the programming support libraries.

   X Window System (X) Programming Support

   The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib) provided
   by DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS supplies basic resource management (win-
   dows, color maps, input devices) and bitmap graphics services. It defines 
   a mapping of the X network protocol to a procedure library.

   X Window System Intrinsics Support

   The X Window System Intrinsics library support contains the X Consortium 
   Release 5 (R5) Intrinsics (X Toolkit). The X Toolkit provides low-level 
   routines that allow the creation of user interface objects called widgets.

   OSF/Motif User Interface Programming Support

   OSF/Motif is the user interface for Digital and third-party software
   tailored for the DECwindows environment. It establishes the conventions 
   and styles for graphical applications. Applications use Motif components 
   to build user interfaces that look and feel alike.



                                    13

 






   The OSF/Motif Style Guide describes the principles, philosophy, and
   components used to build consistent and well-integrated OSF/Motif ap-
   plications. In addition, the DECwindows Companion to the OSF/Motif Style
   Guide provides additional information concerning the style of OSF/Motif
   user interfaces. This manual also provides guidelines concerning ad-
   ditional features that Digital provides in the DECwindows Motif for
   OpenVMS offering, and includes a Digital preferred terminology list
   for a number of supported languages for developers producing OSF/Motif
   applications in these languages.

   The OSF/Motif style concepts are implemented by the OSF/Motif Toolkit.
   DECwindows Motif contains both the OSF/Motif and XUI Toolkits; appli-
   cation run-time support is provided for CDE Motif 1.0 (OSF/Motif Re-
   lease 1.2.5) and OSF/Motif Release 1.2.3, Release 1.2.2, and Release
   1.1.3 Toolkits, as well as for the XUI Toolkit. The OSF/Motif toolkit
   is based on the X Toolkit Intrinsics and contains three components:

   o  OSF/Motif widgets and gadgets for implementing common user inter-
      face objects, such as scroll bars, menus, and push buttons

   o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions for per-
      forming common tasks, such as cutting and pasting

   o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface definition files
      and creating widgets and gadgets based on the contents of the def-
      inition files

   The OSF/Motif Toolkit is used in conjunction with the OSF/Motif User
   Interface Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface definition files
   produced by this compiler contain the data that describes the form of
   DECwindows applications. These UIL files also allow OSF/Motif Toolkit
   widget and gadget information, such as menu item labels, to be stored
   separately from the toolkit and application run-time code. This ca-
   pability allows application developers to prototype and easily modify 
   user interface designs, to separate form from function in appli-
   cations, and to support translatable products that do not require re-
   compilation of source files.

   Digital Extensions to OSF/Motif


                                    14

 






   The DECwindows Motif product adds value to the standard OSF/Motif Toolkit
   by including a library that contains a set of Digital developed widgets 
   and run-time routines not available from OSF. The following widgets 
   provide a common DECwindows interface for some commonly used DECwindows 
   functions:

   o  A Color Mix widget that enables users to select and mix colors using 
      a variety of color models.

   o  A Compound String Text widget that provides support for interna-
      tional right-to-left character sets as well as left-to-right char-
      acter sets.

   o  A Help widget that allows applications to display appropriate Help
      text in a consistent manner. This widget is provided for backward
      compatibility with DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Version 1.0 and has
      been superseded by the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS help system (hy-
      perhelp).

   o  A Print widget that allows applications to print files in a con-
      sistent manner.

   o  A Structured Visual Navigation (SVN) widget used by applications
      to display hierarchical information.

   The run-time routines include:

   o  Three DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS help system calls that enable
      users to display online help files using Bookreader.

   o  DECimage run-time support for applications developed using DECim-
      age Application Services. This support includes the Image Services
      Library, Image Display Services, and X Image Extensions.

   Translated Image Environment for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha

   DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha provides an array of services to
   allow the operation of programs that have undergone binary transla-
   tion from DECwindows Motif Version 1.1 or XUI VAX images. These pro-
   grams can perform virtually all user-mode functions on DECwindows Mo-
   tif for OpenVMS Alpha systems. However, DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS

                                    15

 






   Alpha shareable images that are used with translated images are dif-
   ferent from and incompatible with the shareable images used for native 
   images. Native and translated images that use DECwindows Motif for 
   OpenVMS Alpha software cannot be used together in a process.

   Without requiring special source code, the Translated Image Environment 
   (TIE) automatically resolves differences between the VAX and Alpha 
   architectures, including floating-point registers, condition codes,
   exception handling, ASTs, and others.

   The Translated Image Environment included with DECwindows Motif for
   OpenVMS Alpha is sufficient to run images that have been translated
   elsewhere. The DECmigrate layered product can be used to translate images 
   linked with the OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3 Toolkit (shipped with DECwindows 
   Motif Version 1.1 for OpenVMS VAX) for running on an OpenVMS Alpha system. 
   For additional information about the precise characteristics of programs 
   suitable for binary translation, refer to the DECmigrate Software Product 
   Description (SPD 39.44.xx for VAX; SPD 39.45.xx for Alpha).

   XUI to Motif Porting Tools

   Digital provides tools to aid programmers in porting applications to
   Motif. These tools replace occurrences of XUI names in the input source
   file with the correct Motif names.

   CDA Programming Support

   The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications can use to
   create, read, and write files containing compound text, graphics, and
   imaging data. These files provide a vehicle for recording this infor-
   mation on disk, a medium for interchange of this data between appli-
   cations, and an intermediate form from which high-resolution printable 
   graphics data can be generated.

   Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)






                                    16

 






   The Display PostScript sYSTEM PROVIDED with DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS 
   extends the native X graphical programming environment for DECwindows 
   users displaying text or images on workstations that support the XDPS 
   extension.

   X Windows Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the
   basic X11 environment:

   o  Most DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rotation an-
      gle.

   o  XDPS graphics are specified in a user-defined coordinate system in-
      dependent of monitor density.

   o  Color or gray-scale rendition is automatically modified to take ad-
      vantage of the monitor type through direct display, color dither-
      ing, or half toning.

   o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and executed
      on command.

   o  Sophisticated graphics primitives, such as precisely controlled Bezier
      curves, can be displayed.

   o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily.

   Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe Client Library. In ad-
   dition, a converter called pswrap allows users to convert PostScript
   code into C programs that can be called from other languages.

   DECwindows X11 Display Server for OpenVMS Extension Support

   The X11 server protocol is implemented on both the OpenVMS VAX and the
   OpenVMS Alpha operating systems. As of OpenVMS VAX Version 6.0, the
   DECwindows X11 display server on OpenVMS VAX supports the full X11 pro-
   tocol and contains significant portions of the Release 4 (R4) and Re-
   lease 5 (R5) code base, plus some optional extensions. By contrast,
   as of OpenVMS Alpha Version 7.1, the DECwindows X11 display server for
   OpenVMS Alpha is a direct port of the X Window System Version 11, Re-
   lease 6 (X11 R6) display server, plus some optional extensions.

                                    17

 






   The DECwindows X11 display server is an optional part of the OpenVMS
   VAX and OpenVMS Alpha kits. The DECwindows X11 display server, including 
   device drivers and fonts, can be selected for installation during the 
   OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha installation procedures.

   The DECwindows X11 display server for OpenVMS supports the following
   extensions. Client libraries for these extensions are included in the
   DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha 
   layered products.

   o  AccessX (OpenVMS Alpha only): "AccessX" as defined by Digital. Pro-
      vides keyboard enhancements to the X server for people with movement 
      impairments.

   o  Display PostScript: "Adobe-DPS-Extension" as defined jointly by Adobe
      Systems Incorporated and Digital Equipment Corporation and regis-
      tered with the X Consortium. Allows the display server to execute
      PostScript commands to support the XDPS programming environment.

   o  MITmisc: "MIT-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" as defined by the X Consortium.
      Allows users to determine and to set the server bug compatibility
      mode.

   o  MIT-SHM (OpenVMS Alpha only): "MIT-SHM" as defined by the X Con-
      sortium. Provides the ability to share memory XImages between the
      client and server.

   o  Multibuffering: "Multi-Buffering" as defined by the X Consortium.
      Allows the display server to provide support for multiple-buffered
      images.

   o  Shape (OpenVMS Alpha only): "SHAPE" as defined by the X Consortium.
      Allows programs to create windows with shapes other than the stan-
      dard rectangle.

   o  X Imaging Extension: "XIE" as defined by Digital and registered with
      the X Consortium. Allows the display server to provide hardware or
      software support for imaging operations for ISL, the Image Services
      Library.


                                    18

 






   o  XTRAP: "DEC-XTRAP" as defined by Digital and registered with the
      X Consortium. Allows the display server to provide support for hands-
      off testing programs like DTM, the DEC/Test Manager.


   HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

   DECwindows Motif runs on any of the supported processors but requires
   either a workstation, an MS-DOS[R] based PC, a Macintosh[R], or an X
   terminal for display. These display devices must be running an X Win-
   dow System, Version 11, Release 4 (R4) or Release 5 (R5) compliant dis-
   play server.

   Supported VAX and Alpha Processors

   DECwindows Motif supports all the AVX and Alpha processors listed in
   the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating system Software Product
   Descriptions (SPD 41.87.xx for Alpha; SPD 25.01.37 for VAX), with the
   exception of those listed in the Unsupported Processors section.

   Unsupported Processors

   For performance reasons, DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS
   VAX is not supported on the following processors:

      MicroVAX II
      MicroVAX 2000
      VAXstation II
      VAXstation 2000
      VAXstation 8000
      VAX-11/725
      VAX-11/730
      VAX-11/750
      VAX-11/780
      VAX-11/782
      VAX-11/785





                                    19

 






   Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1)


   For Alpha Systems

   The following values are required for installation and use of the base
   version of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha.

   Disk space required         179,500 blocks
   for DECwindows Motif
   installation

   Disk space required for     177,500 blocks
   DECwindows Motif use
   (permanent)

   The following values are required for installation and use of the He-
   brew variant version, in addition to those required for the base ver-
   sion of DECwindows Motif V1.2-4 for OpenVMS (see above).

   Disk space required for      35,000 blocks
   DECwindows Motif/Hebrew

   To support full OpenVMS Alpha and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS
   Alpha, a system disk with at least 480 MB is recommended. However, a
   subset of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Instal-
   lation of DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha gives the
   user the option to install any or all of the following components:

   o  Run-time support (base kit) - 50,000 blocks. This section provides
      support for running DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha applications
      on Alpha compute servers and is a required part of the installa-
      tion.

   o  New Desktop - 42,000 blocks. This is an optional component that al-
      lows use of the New Desktop environment. It includes applications
      and application programming interfaces (APIs).




                                    20

 






   o  DECwindows desktop - 8,000 blocks. This component is also optional,
      but either the New Desktop or the DECwindows desktop should be in-
      stalled to create a usable system. The DECwindows desktop is the
      user interface that was included in previous versions of DECwindows 
      Motif and includes the DECwindows Session Manager, FileView, and the 
      Motif Window Manager.

   o  Programming support - 13,000 blocks. This number includes support
      for the C, Pascal, and Fortran programming languages and for the
      New Desktop. If only a subset of languages is installed, the amount
      of disk space required will be less.

   o  Programming examples - 13,000 blocks. This number includes example 
      audio files, the DECwindows desktop, and the New Desktop. If only a 
      subset of example files is installed, the amount of disk space
      required will be less.

   o  Translated-image support - 33,500 blocks.

   For VAX Systems

   The following values are required for installation and use of the base
   version of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX.

   Disk space required         74,500 blocks
   for DECwindows Motif
   installation

   Disk space required for     73,500 blocks
   DECwindows Motif use
   (permanent)

   The following values are required for installation and use of the He-
   brew variant version, in addition to those required for the base ver-
   sion of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS V1.2-4 (see above).

   Disk space required for     15,000 blocks
   DECwindows Motif/Hebrew



                                    21

 






   To support full OpenVMS VAX and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX,
   a system disk with at least 280 MB is recommended. However, a subset
   of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Installation of
   DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX gives the user the op-
   tion of installing any or all of the following components:

   o  DECwindows Motif run-time support files (base kit) - 48,500 blocks.
      This section provides support for running DECwindows Motif for Open-
      VMS VAX applications on VAX compute servers, and is a required part
      of the installation. It includes the DECwindows desktop applica-
      tions and libraries.

   o  Programming support - 12,000 blocks. This number includes support
      for the C, Pascal, and Fortran programming languages. If only a sub-
      set of languages is installed, the amount of disk space required
      will be less.

   o  Programming examples - 11,000 blocks. This number includes example 
      audio files and the DECwindows desktop. If only a subset of example 
      files is installed, the amount of disk space required will be less.

   These block sizes refer to the disk space required on the system disk.
   The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
   system environment, configuration, and software options (for example,
   DECwindows Motif programming examples).

   Memory Requirements

   For Alpha Systems

   The minimum amount of memory required for a system user to install,
   boot, and log in to an OpenVMS Alpha system running DECwindows Motif
   for OpenVMS Alpha is 32 MB. Remote execution of applications requires
   an additional system that runs the application while the application
   is displayed on the local workstation.

   The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS Alpha systems running DECwin-
   dows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha depend on system configuration and window 
   and applications usage.


                                    22

 






   Please note that memory requirements may change in future releases of
   DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Alpha.

   For VAX Systems

   The minimum amount of memory required for a system user to install,
   boot, and log in to an OpenVMS VAX system running DECwindows Motif for
   OpenVMS VAX is 12 MB; 16 MB is highly recommended for more robust per-
   formance. Remote execution of applications requires an additional sys-
   tem that runs the application while the application is displayed on
   the local workstation.

   The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS VAX systems running DECwin-
   dows Motif for OpenVMS VAX depend on system configuration and window
   and applications usage.

   Please note that memory requirements may change in future releases of
   DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX.

   Support for Multiple-Screen Configurations

   DECwindows Motif supports workstations with multiple screens. On Open-
   VMS Alpha, a multiple-screen configuration consists of a single work-
   station that supports multiple graphics options. A graphics option con-
   sists of a graphics controller and a monitor.

   Please refer to the Getting Started With the New Desktop manual for
   additional information about supported multiple-screen configurations.
   See also the Systems and Options Catalog for more information.

   Miscellaneous Supported Peripherals

   VSXXX-AB     Tablet (replaces mouse)

   VSXXX-JA     Audio headset

   VSXXX-AA     Mouse




                                    23

 





   VSXXX-FA     Mouse


   CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

   This product is fully supported without restrictions when installed
   on any valid and licensed VAXcluster* configuration.

   *  VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the OpenVMS Clus-
      ter Software Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include
      CI, Ethernet, and mixed-interconnect configurations.

   SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

   To run DECwindows Motif/Hebrew V1.2-4 for OpenVMS on the VAX system,
   the following should be installed:

   o  OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2 or higher

   o  For OpenVMS V6.2 or higher: OpenVMS I18n kit (e.g. VMSI18N062 for
      OpenVMS Version 6.2)

   o  DECwindows Motif V1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX

   o  DECwindows Motif V1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX Patch Kit (VAXMOTF01_U4012)

   o  DECwindows Motif/Hebrew V1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX (this kit)

   To run DECwindows Motif/Hebrew V1.2-4 for OpenVMS on the Alpha system,
   the following should be installed:

   o  OpenVMS Alpha Version 6.2 or higher

   o  OpenVMS I18n kit (e.g. VMSI18N062 for OpenVMS Version 6.2 )

   o  DECwindows Motif V1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha

   o  DECwindows Motif V1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha Patch Kit (ALPMOTF01_U4012)

   o  DECwindows Motif/Hebrew V1.2-4 for OpenVMS Alpha (this kit)


                                    24

 






   OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

   o  PATHWORKS for DOS and Windows

   o  PATHWORKS for DOS (TCP/IP)

   o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh

   o  Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS VAX

   o  Digital TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS Alpha

   o  Builder eXcessory (BX) for OpenVMS VAX

   GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

   The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
   this product may be different from the requirements for the current
   version.

   DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

   The DECwindows Motif/Hebrew V1.2-4 for OpenVMS product (binaries) is
   available exclusively on the OpenVMS (VAX or Alpha) companion Software 
   Products Library (SPL - formerly ConDIST) CD-ROM set.

   The DECwindows Motif/Hebrew V1.2-4 for OpenVMS documentation is avail-
   able exclusively on the OpenVMS (VAX or Alpha) companion Online Doc-
   umentation Library (ODL - formerly ConOLD) CD-ROM set.

   ORDERING INFORMATION

   For OpenVMS Alpha Systems

   Software Licenses: QL-08UT*-AA






                                    25

 



   Software and Documentation Media (CD-ROM: OpenVMS Alpha Software Lay-
   ered Products Library Package - binaries and Bookreader documentation):

   QA-03XAA-**

   Software Media (CD-ROM: OpenVMS Alpha Software Layered Products Libarary
   - binary kits only):

   QA-4KL8A-**

   Software Documentation (CD-ROM: OpenVMS Alpha OnLine Documentation Li-
   brary - documentation only):

   QA-4KM8A-**

   For OpenVMS VAX Systems

   Software Licenses: QL-XDDT*-AA

   Software and Documentation Media (CD-ROM: OpenVMS VAX Software Layered 
   Products Library Package - binaries and Bookreader documentation):

   QA-5G88A-**

   Software Media (CD-ROM: OpenVMS VAX Software Layered Products Libarary
   - binary kits only):

   QA-5FW8A-**

   Software Documentation (CD-ROM: OpenVMS VAX OnLine Documentation Li-
   brary - documentation only):

   QA-VYR8A-**

   Documentation for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS (VAX and Alpha)

   The DECwindows Motif user and programming documentation sets apply to
   DECwindows Motif on both the VAX and Alpha operating systems. The hard-
   copy user documentation kit is included in the DECwindows Motif H-kits.
   It can also be ordered separately. The hardcopy Programming documen-
   tation kit must be ordered separately. If you are ordering DECwindows
   Motif for OpenVMS on a CD, you will receive both the user documenta-
   tion and most of the programming documentation in Bookreader format.

                                    26

 






   Because not all books in the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Programming
   documentation kit are available in Bookreader format, you must order
   the following hardcopy manuals to complete the DECwindows Motif for
   OpenVMS Programming documentation offering:

   o  X Window System Toolkit: AA-PHF4A-TE

   o  X and Motif Quick Reference Guide: AA-PHQ1B-TE

   o  X Window System: AA-PHF3B-TE

   o  OSF/Motif Programmer's Reference: AA-Q3E5A-TE

   o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Quick Reference Card: AV-PGZ4B-TE

   CDE Documentation

   The following Common Desktop Environment (CDE) manuals are provided
   in support of the New Desktop. These manuals are included in the DECwin-
   dows Motif H-kit CD-ROM in HTML format and can be read using the En-
   hanced Mosaic browser provided with DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4.
   For more information about the location of the manuals on the CD-ROM,
   see the Guide to the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS CD-ROM.

   The CDE manuals are also separately orderable from Digital in hardcopy 
   format. Please note that the order numbers in this list apply to the 
   hardcopy manuals only.

   o  Common Desktop Environment: User's Guide: AA-QTLNA-TE

   o  Common Desktop Environment: Advanced User's and System Administra-
      tor's Guide: AA-QTLQA-TE

   o  Common Desktop Environment: Help System Author's and Programmer's
      Guide: AA-QTLYA-TE

   o  Common Desktop Environment: Programmer's Overview: AA-QTLWA-TE

   o  Common Desktop Environment: Programmer's Guide: AA-QTLXA-TE

   o  Common Desktop Environment: Style Guide and Certification Check-
      list: AA-QTM3A-TE


                                    27

 






   o  Common Desktop Environment: Internationalization Programmer's Guide:
      AA-QTM2A-TE

   o  Common Desktop Environment: Product Glossary: AA-QTM4A-TE

   Please note that not all the information in the CDE documentation and
   reference pages applies to the New Desktop. Please refer to the Get-
   ting Started With the New Desktop manual for an accurate description
   of the New Desktop.

   This documentation will be distributed in future releases of the On-
   line Documentation Library and is currently accessible on the World
   Wide Web at the the following address:

      http://www.openvms.digital.com/
      openvms/doc-sets/index.html

   SOFTWARE LICENSING

   This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
   about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
   ital office.

   Digital provides a DECwindows Motif/Hebrew for OpenVMS license Prod-
   uct Authorization Key (PAK) with the purchase of a VAX or Alpha work-
   station.

   Media and online documentation kits are not provided with Factory In-
   stalled Software (FIS) systems.

   License Management Facility Support

   DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS supports the OpenVMS License Management
   Facility. License units for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS are allocated
   on an Unlimited System Use and Personal Use basis. Each Personal Use
   license allows one identified individual to use the layered product.





                                    28

 






   For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
   OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS Alpha operating system Software Product Descrip-
   tions (SPD 41.87.xx for Alpha; SPD 25.01.37 for VAX) or the OpenVMS
   VAX and OpenVMS Alpha operating system documentation.


   SOFTWARE WARRANTY

   Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
   chase of a license for the product.

   SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

   A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
   formation, contact your local Digital office.

   ©1997 Digital Equipment Corporation.
   All Rights Reserved.

   [R]  Adobe, POSTSCRIPT and Display POSTSCRIPT are registered trade-
        marks of Adobe Systems Incorporated. Macintosh is a registered
        trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Motif, OSF, and OSF/Motif
        are registered trademarks of the Open Software Foundation,
        Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpora-
        tion. MultiNet is a registered trademark of TGV, Inc.

   [TM] X Window System is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute
        of Technology. Open Software Foundation is a trademark of Open
        Software Foundation, Inc.

   [TM] Mosaic and NCSA Mosaic are trademarks of the University of
        Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

   [TM] Netscape and Netscape Navigator are trademarks of Netscape
        Communications Corporation.






                                    29

 







   [TM] Bookreader, CDA, CI, DEC, DEC Ada, Digital Fortran, DECim-
        age, DECmigrate, DECnet, DECterm, DECwindows, LAT, MicroVAX,
        MicroVAX II, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, POLYCENTER, ReGIS, TURBOchan-
        nel, VAX, VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAXstation, VMS, VMScluster,
        VT, VT52, VT100, VT220, VT320, XUI, and the Digital logo are
        trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.


   APPENDIX A - THIRD PARTY LICENSING

   Open Software Foundation, Inc., License Terms and Agreement

   Digital Equipment Corporation certifies that DECwindows Motif Version
   1.2-4 for OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows Motif Version 1.2-4 for OpenVMS
   Alpha is CDE Motif 1.0 (OSF/Motif Release 1.2.5) validated as tested
   with the OSF/Motif Validation Test Suite Release 1.1 with no waivers.
























                                    30
