 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems
     SPD 25.08.24

     DESCRIPTION

     This Software Product Description describes two products: DSM
     for OpenVMS AXP and DSM for OpenVMS VAX (DSM).

     DSM (Digital Standard M) for OpenVMS is an implementation of
     the ANSI Standard Specification for MUMPS (X11.1-1990) that is
     layered on the OpenVMS operating system. (Digital Standard M
     was formerly called Digital Standard MUMPS.) It is a high-level
     interpretive programming language and a multiuser data manage-
     ment system in which many users can share a common database. DSM
     software supports a superset of the ANSI MUMPS specification and
     fully uses the capabilities of the OpenVMS operating system.

     DSM includes the DSM Application Software Library (DASL) soft-
     ware. The DASL software is an application creation tool that
     combines a Data Dictionary, Screen (form) Compiler, Report Com-
     piler, and an end-user SQL-compliant Query Driver. DASL software
     uses code generation techniques to transform DASL commands and
     SQL statements into efficient MUMPS code.

     DSM Language

     The DSM language couples the flexible processing of variable
     length string data with a high-performance database system, mak-
     ing interactive database application systems easier to implement
     and maintain.



                                  DIGITAL               November 1993

                                                          AE-K412Y-TE

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     The DSM language includes the following extensions to the ANSI
     Standard MUMPS specification:

     o  A 512-character maximum string length for local and global
        variables.

     o  A 245-character maximum string length for subscripted local
        and global variable names.

     o  Commands and functions to load, save, and edit DSM routines.

     o  Language elements that implement a subset of the OpenVMS
        I/O options for the support of terminals, including foreign
        terminals, magnetic tape devices, mailboxes, and VMS RMS se-
        quential, relative, and indexed sequential files. The use of
        DECnet for remote file access and task-to-task communication
        is also possible.

     o  An I/O command interface to DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS
        (UCX). This allows application software to access TCP/IP
        network devices using MUMPS OPEN, USE, READ, WRITE, and CLOSE
        commands. An interface is also provided to Wollongong WIN
        /TCP.

     o  An Interface to DECwindows System, XIMAGE Extension, and
        DECimage Application Services software.

     o  A maximum routine line length of 512 characters.

     o  MUMPS ANSI 1993 Type A Language Extensions.

     o  Routine source code protection.

     o  Flexible device control mnemonic space definition and manage-
        ment for use with the MUMPS WRITE / and READ / syntax.

     In addition to supporting the calling of user-written proce-
     dures, DSM software also includes built-in interfaces to se-
     lected OpenVMS system services and run-time library routines.
     This gives the DSM language the ability to mount and dismount
     disk or magnetic tape volumes, spawn DCL subprocesses, manipu-
     late logical names, and call mathematical and text manipulation
     functions, or editors.

                                     2

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     For high run-time efficiency, the DSM language is implemented
     as a precompiler that generates intermediate code that is in-
     terpreted at run-time. During the precompilation process, which
     is transparent to the user, DSM software performs operations
     that optimize subsequent run-time execution. For example, pre-
     compilation strips comments, checks syntax, optimizes label
     references, and transforms numeric constants into an internal
     representation.

     Global Variables

     The DSM language allows symbolic reference to hierarchical
     arrays called global variables (or simply globals), which can be
     concurrently accessed by many users of a DSM application. DSM
     software provides a high-performance implementation of global
     variables using multiway trees. DSM stores global variables and
     DSM routines on data structures called DSM volume sets. Each
     is comprised of up to eight logical volumes. Volumes in a DSM
     volume set can be either files on an OpenVMS volume or disk
     packs mounted as foreign OpenVMS volumes. In a DSM run-time
     environment, up to 31 volume sets can be present simultaneously.

     Database Sharing in a VMScluster Environment

     In OpenVMS configurations that support a VMScluster environment,
     the DSM for OpenVMS software allows volume sets to be mounted
     and made accessible to all members of a VMScluster environment.
     The globals and routines resident within the cluster-mounted
     volume sets are accessible in the same manner as a locally
     mounted volume set. Each cluster member maintains and updates
     a memory disk buffer cache for the cluster-mounted volume set.
     VMScluster software is used to coordinate the access and update
     of physical disk blocks.

     DSM configurations can also be run in heterogeneous VMScluster
     environments consisting of VAX and Alpha AXP CPUs.

     M Windowing Application Programming Interface

                                     3

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     The DSM product includes an implementation of the standard M
     Windowing Application Programming Interface (WAPI). WAPI pro-
     vides a high level and portable method of creating a graphical
     user interface (GUI) for DSM applications.

     WAPI is layered on the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS system. This
     architecture and the design of the WAPI enables programming in
     MUMPS and allows access to DECwindows Motif calls if necessary.
     (The WAPI standard has been designed to work on all major win-
     dowing systems, and provides ready application portability among
     platforms and M vendors.)

     The WAPI uses a database approach to windows programming (rather
     than relying on function calls, and resource files for defin-
     ing static displays.) Window definitions can be stored in a
     global array. A window can be created by merging the global ar-
     ray into Structured System Variables (SSVNs). The display can
     later be modified by manipulating SSVNs. In this way, the WAPI
     combines the capabilities of resource files and functions within
     a simple, high-level interface.

     The application's primary mechanism for communicating with a
     user is the window. Applications are made aware of actions taken
     by users, such as pressing a key or selecting a menu item, by
     events. Applications specify the events about which they want
     to be notified and specify the code to execute when an event
     occurs.

     Distributed Data Processing

     DSM applications can access globals either locally or on a re-
     mote system. The DSM software supports remote access to globals
     through a DSM-specific Distributed Data Processing (DDP) pro-
     tocol. DSM software implements this high-performance protocol
     on Ethernet in a manner compatible with DSM for DEC OSF/1 AXP
     (SPD 47.60.00), DSM for ULTRIX (SPD 33.76.xx), and DSM DDP-DOS
     (SPD 50.19.xx). This allows the user to set up DSM networks con-
     sisting of any combination of Alpha AXP processors, DECstation

                                     4

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     or DECsystem processors, VAX processors, and personal comput-
     ers in a local area network. The DDP autoconfiguration facility
     automatically updates the software tables of members of a DDP
     network when a new system goes on or off line.

     DSM software also supports DDP over DECnet Phase IV logical
     links, allowing remote global access between VAX and Alpha AXP
     systems in a wide area network. DDP over DECnet Phase V networks
     is not supported.

     Distributed global access can be done either explicitly, through
     the extended DSM global syntax, or transparently to DSM appli-
     cations through a system of global translation. Optionally, the
     DSM environment manager can specify the replication of one or
     more globals across several systems.

     After-Image Journaling

     DSM supports a journaling facility to provide a record on sec-
     ondary storage of all operations that modify the database (SET
     and KILL of global variables). Journaling can be done on a
     global-by-global basis or for a whole DSM environment. In the
     event of database degradation, it is possible to restore the
     current database from a full backup and the journal files using
     a dejournaling utility.

     Before-Image Journaling

     DSM software provides a journaling capability that records
     the physical image of a database block before modifications
     have been made. This facility preserves database integrity in
     the event of a CPU failure. The physical before-image journal
     contains only a very small number of blocks and is used to
     quickly roll back any operations in progress at the time of
     the failure. The operations protected are SETs to globals that
     result in a database block split, or KILLs that result in a
     database block merge.

     Transaction Processing

                                     5

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     DSM provides extensions to the ANSI MUMPS language that allow
     programmers to group global accesses into well-defined transac-
     tion recovery units. The use of transaction recovery units gives
     application designers the ability to create highly reliable and
     efficient fault-tolerant application systems.

     Database updates made within the context of a recovery unit are
     treated as a single unit of work. On conclusion of a recovery
     unit, DSM ensures that updates are either committed entirely or
     not at all. If a failure occurs during recovery unit processing,
     any partial updates made to the database are rolled back so
     that the database is restored to its original state before the
     recovery unit began.

     Through the conventional use of the MUMPS LOCK command and the
     application of the recovery unit commands, programmers can
     construct database transactions that exhibit the transaction
     processing properties of atomicity, consistency, isolation, and
     durability (ACID properties).

     DSM supports rollback of recovery units through a system of
     before-image and after-image journal files. Transaction recovery
     unit processing is supported on database volume sets that are
     mounted locally. DSM does not support transaction processing on
     volume sets mounted clusterwide across multiple nodes within a
     VMScluster environment.

     Recovery of updates made to databases that are shared using
     DSM Distributed Data Processing (DDP) is not supported within a
     transaction recovery unit.

     DECwindows System Interface

     DSM provides a complete binding for the DSM language to the
     DECwindows system. The binding is implemented as four separate
     external call packages, which provide a MUMPS interface to the
     XLIB, XTOOLKIT, XMOTIF, and XMOTIF Resource Manager program
     libraries. The binding conforms to the ANSI MUMPS Standard
     Specification.

                                     6

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     An additional package provides data manipulation primitives for
     allocating and modifying X Window data structures. These pack-
     ages give the programmer complete access to X Window procedures
     for creating sophisticated graphical user interfaces.

     A set of sample MUMPS programs is provided with complete docu-
     mentation of the interface.

     Incremental Backup/Restore

     DSM provides an Incremental Backup Utility (^BACKUP) for use
     with the DSM database. The ^BACKUP Utility backs up only those
     blocks that have been modified since the last full backup.
     Because modified blocks usually constitute a small portion of
     an entire DSM database, the ^BACKUP Utility represents a major
     reduction in the time required for backup and the amount of
     backup storage required.

     The ^BACKUP Utility implements a multiphase backup. The initial
     phases allow database read and write operations to occur un-
     restricted on both locally mounted and cluster-mounted volume
     sets. The last phase temporarily inhibits database operations
     for a short period to establish a final consistency check point.

     Full database backup of DSM for OpenVMS volume set files is
     accomplished using the OpenVMS Backup utility. Restoration of
     an incremental backup is accomplished using the Incremental
     Restore Utility to apply an incremental backup file onto a fully
     restored primary database. The backup media supported by the
     ^BACKUP Utility is OpenVMS sequential disk files.

     Callable Routines Interface

     The callable routines interface allows routines written in
     software languages that run under the OpenVMS operating system
     to directly call the DSM shareable image. This capability gives
     programs written in languages such as FORTRAN, C, PASCAL, and
     others complete read and write access to globals resident in a
     DSM volume set. Functions such as global set, kill, get, or lock
     to a DSM database can be accomplished using many OpenVMS layered

                                     7

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     languages. Also, external programs can declare recovery units,
     access the DSM local symbol table, and execute MUMPS code.

     The following functions are available to external programs:

     o  Callable interface initialization and rundown

     o  Global database access

     o  Declare recovery unit (start, commit, abort)

     o  LOCK command

     o  Local symbol access

     o  MUMPS command and routine execution

     Utilities

     The DSM product provides application and system level utilities
     written in the DSM language. Application level utilities help
     the DSM programmer develop and maintain application software and
     data. For example, there are utilities to edit and display DSM
     routines and globals.

     System level utilities allow the management of a DSM application
     environment. The system manager can create and extend DSM vol-
     ume sets, specify DSM configuration parameters such as access
     control (security), the number of concurrent DSM jobs and disk
     buffers, define DSM command line defaults, establish DDP links
     and control journaling. For increased efficiency of routine
     calling, the system manager can map a selected set of DSM appli-
     cation routines in a shared virtual memory section, resulting in
     higher application throughput.

     DSM Application Software Library (DASL)

     DASL software is a set of menu-driven tools designed for de-
     velopers of interactive applications. The DASL package auto-
     mates many of the tasks involved in defining and documenting a
     database: generating data input, menu, and help text screens,

                                     8

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     designing reports for data output, and creating tables for
     database queries.

     The DASL package is fully integrated with DSM. Therefore, DASL
     software provides both 4GL and 3GL capabilities within a single
     environment. Users interact with DASL software through menus and
     screens that were developed using DASL software and are stored
     as DSM routines.

     The DASL package includes six major modules, each representing
     a group of related functions that programmers use to develop
     applications.

     o  The Data Dictionary defines and documents the application
        database.

     o  The Screen Driver contains options to develop and modify
        screen displays for data entry, menus, and help text.

     o  The Report Driver contains options to define and modify
        application reports.

     o  The Query Driver contains options to define tables for the
        DASL database and create queries to extract data from the
        tables. The DASL Query Driver conforms to the syntax of
        the ANSI Standard Database Language SQL (Structured Query
        Language).

     o  The Development Environment performs a variety of development
        tasks such as specifying application parameters, or cre-
        ating an international application using the DASL Language
        Utilities.

     o  The Application Environment provides facilities for con-
        trolling the application's run-time environment such as a
        security system, message center, query database, and error
        logging.

     Portable Run-Time DASL

                                     9

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     Screens and reports defined using DASL can be compiled into
     MUMPS code for use on systems provided by other M vendors (for-
     eign M systems).

     The DASL software generates some non-ANSI Standard MUMPS code.
     This code has been isolated and can be modified by a DASL devel-
     oper so that DASL applications can run on platforms other than
     DSM.

     The DASL Development Environment Menu contains Portable Run-
     Time DASL utilities that enable DASL developers to port their
     applications to other M implementations and computers. DASL
     developers use these utilities to create an application run-
     time package that contains their DASL application's screens and
     reports, as well as a DASL run-time environment.

     The application run-time package can be moved to a foreign M
     system. To run this package on a foreign M system, you must have
     a Run-Time DASL License.

     SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

     DSM provides example files for writing external routines and
     external package tables in the SYS$EXAMPLES directory. Examples
     of programs using the callable routines interface and using
     Portable Run-Time DASL are also supplied. This source code is
     provided on an as is basis without any warranty of any kind,
     either express or implied.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the
     System Support Addendum (SSA 25.08.24-x).






                                    10

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

     For Alpha AXP Systems

     OpenVMS AXP Operating System

     For VAX Systems

     OpenVMS VAX Operating System

     Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.08.24-x) for avail-
     ability and required versions of prerequisite and optional
     software.

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     For Alpha AXP Systems

     Software License (Concurrent Use): QL-130AA-3B
     Software Licenses (Traditional): QL-00ZA*-AA
     Software Licenses (Run-Time DASL): QL-YP29*-FA
     Software Media/Documentation: QA-03XAA-H8
     Software Documentation (hardcopy): QA-130AA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-03XAA-C8
     DASL Legend Strip: 36-20220-B1

     For VAX Systems

     Software Licenses (Concurrent Use): QL-130AA-3B
     Software Licenses (Traditional): QL-130A*-AA
     Software Licenses: (Run-Time DASL): QL-YP29*-FA
     Software Media: QA-130A*-**
     Software Documentation (hardcopy): QA-130AA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-130A*-**
     DASL Legend Strip: 36-20220-B1

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

                                    11

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24



     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about the licensing terms and policies,
     contact your local Digital office.

     License Management Facility

     This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management
     Facility (LMF). License units for this product are allocated on
     an Unlimited System Use and Concurrent Use basis. Each Concur-
     rent Use license allows any one DSM process at a time to use the
     layered product.

     For more information about the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
     ity, refer to the appropriate OpenVMS Operating System Software
     Product Description or documentation.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     ®    Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Founda-
          tion, Inc., licensed by Digital

     ®    OSF/1 and OSF are registered trademarks of Open Software
          Foundation, Inc.




                                    12

 


     DSM Version 6.3 for OpenVMS VAX and AXP Systems    SPD 25.08.24




     ®    MUMPS is a registered trademark of Massachusetts General
          Hospital.

     ®    XIMAGE is a registered trademark of Image Corporation.

     [TM] WIN/TCP is a trademark of The Wollongong Group.

     [TM] The following are trademarks of Digital Equipment Cor-
          poration: Alpha AXP, AXP, DASL, DEC, DECimage, DECnet,
          DECstation, DECsystem, DECwindows, OpenVMS, ULTRIX, VAX,
          VAXcluster, VAXstation, VMS, VMS RMS, VMScluster, and the
          DIGITAL logo.

     ©1993 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.
























                                    13
