 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1/BRITISH                        SPD 30.94.04
                    Integrated Office System Server for VMS, Version 3.0

     DESCRIPTION

     ALL-IN-1 Integrated Office System (IOS) Server for VMS is a
     customizable, menu-oriented software product that provides
     generic office applications and a facility for integrating
     other business-oriented applications. ALL-IN-1 IOS unifies
     these applications into an easy-to-use, menu-driven, information
     system, and provides facilities to enable group-working and
     document sharing.

     Through ALL-IN-1 IOS electronic mail and links into Digital
     Equipment Corporation's networking facilities, users can trans-
     port or receive information that has been created on desktop,
     departmental, and corporate systems.

     ALL-IN-1 IOS consists of:

     o  ALL-IN-1 Office Applications

     o  VAX FMS (includes both FMS and Forms Language Translator)

     o  Message Router VMS Gateway (includes both the Message Router
        and the Gateway to VMS Personal Mail Utility)

     o  CDA Converter Library for VMS (required for use with CDA
        Support)

     o  ALL-IN-1 CDA Interoperability kit

     o  ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for VMS (rights to use only; media
        sold separately)

                                  DIGITAL                 August 1992

                                                          AE-GF15J-TE

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     o  VAX Notes and ALL-IN-1/VAX Notes Interface (Group Conferen-
        cing)

     ALL-IN-1 IOS provides an environment in which users access
     applications in a consistent manner. A user's documents are
     stored in the File Cabinet where they are accessed from the
     office applications.

     The generic office applications are built upon the base system
     facilities. These facilities are available when customizing
     or developing applications that are to be consistent with the
     ALL-IN-1 IOS environment.

     Office Applications:

     File Cabinet/File Cabinet Management

     The ALL-IN-1 IOS File Cabinet is similar in function to a stan-
     dard office filing cabinet - drawers consist of documents con-
     tained within folders. Folders are in alphabetical order and
     documents within the folders are in order by date and time of
     creation. The latest document is listed first, except for the
     INBOX where the latest document is listed last.

     All previously created folders are stored in the MAIN drawer,
     along with the messaging folders - INBOX, OUTBOX, CREATED, READ.
     Users can create other drawers, which can be shared or private.

     Document information (such as title, date created, document
     number, author, keywords, and type) is maintained in the File
     Cabinet. Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and
     manage the contents of the File Cabinet. The user can print
     or delete more than one document at a time. Selection of the
     documents can be made with user-specified criteria.

     Documents (individual or by folder) can be re-filed, cross-
     filed, or duplicated. Information such as title and associated
     keywords can be changed. When a document has multiple cross-
     filings, only one copy of the document body is stored.

                                     2

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Documents deleted by a user are filed in the Wastebasket until
     the Wastebasket is emptied.

     A Scratch Pad facility is provided where parts of documents
     or contents of the user's screen can be temporarily placed.
     Contents of the scratch pad can be inserted into a document,
     edited, printed, mailed, or read.

     The File Cabinet provides access to documents through a common
     mechanism regardless of the format of the documents. Support is
     provided as standard for ASCII, DX, and WPS-PLUS formats.

     ALL-IN-1 IOS provides a feature that allows the user and system
     manager to archive/restore any ALL-IN-1 document from the shared
     areas or from a user's File Cabinet.

     o  Shared Filing

        Users can create shared drawers to allow other users to read
        and edit shared documents. Access controls are provided so
        that the drawer owner can specify which users are allowed
        to access a drawer and the operations they are allowed to
        perform in it. Concurrency control ensures that certain
        actions are prohibited while a user is modifying a shared
        document. For example, while a user is editing a shared
        document, other users attempting to edit that document will
        be informed the document is in use and who is editing the
        document.

        Shared Filing links all users' File Cabinets on a system or
        across systems via the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option.
        Refer to the ALL-IN-1 Distributed Sharing Option Software
        Product Description (SPD 36.79.xx).

     o  Group Services

        Users can define a set of users as a group. Multiple groups
        can be defined. Groups can be assigned access privileges to
        shared documents or drawers. Members can be added or deleted
        from a group and associated access rights are automatically
        assigned or removed.

                                     3

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     o  SFCP Migration

        A utility program converts SFCP File Cabinets into shared
        drawers. Each of the resultant shared drawers is added to the
        File Cabinet of those users who have been granted access. The
        user's access rights are preserved.

     Electronic Messaging

     The Electronic Messaging application provides a means of exchan-
     ging messages with other users. The user can create, edit,
     print, delete, read, and send messages. The message header
     (which contains addressee(s), subject, and mail classification)
     and the text of the message can be edited.

     When creating a message, the user specifies the addressee(s) to
     whom the message is to be sent and, optionally, any addressee(s)
     to receive copies of the message. To save time with addressing,
     the user can create distribution lists or nicknames (seen only
     by the user).

     Incoming messages can be forwarded and/or answered. Answers can
     be directed to the sender only, or to all the recipients of the
     message. Confirmation that the addressee(s) has received and/or
     read the message can be requested. Priority for delivery of
     the message can be assigned as Express, First Class, or Second
     Class. The user can specify the sending of a message be deferred
     to a time chosen by the user.

     Messages appear and are treated as documents to the user. ALL-
     IN-1 IOS maintains folders for incoming, read, created, and sent
     messages. Once a message is sent, one copy of that message is
     shared (per system or cluster) by the sender and receiver(s) and
     cannot be edited. Messages can be re-filed and cross-filed in
     the user's file cabinet. Documents already in the file cabinet
     can be sent to other users.



                                     4

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     The user can choose to have all incoming messages automatically
     forwarded to another user. Alternatively, the user can create a
     reply message that is sent in response to all incoming mail (for
     example, "I am out of the office until. . . .").

     Shared Filing within Electronic Messaging ensures that UI opera-
     tions behave correctly in shared and distributed environments.
     Mail Operations always take place in the user's MAIN drawer,
     whatever the previous context.

     An index of attachments to a message can be displayed and a
     set of options is provided for printing or reading individual
     attachments. Attachments can be filed as revisable text or as
     messages which can be answered or forwarded.

     The Set Mail User (SMU) Option allows a user to perform mail
     operations on behalf of another user, such as a secretary for a
     manager. The Grant Mail Access (GMA) Option lets users specify
     other users who may process their mail. The mail header displays
     both users' names when a mail message is sent.

     Addressing enhancements include user interface improvements;
     the ability to create a distribution list using the list of
     addresses from a received Message Header; and improved nickname
     support - longer nicknames, easier manipulation of the long mail
     addresses common on messages sent or received via gateways to
     other mail systems, and the ability to create a nickname from
     the sender of a message.

     Exchange of messages with ALL-IN-1 IOS users on other systems
     in a DECnet network is provided by Message Router for VMS.
     Message Router VMSmail Gateway allows ALL-IN-1 users to exchange
     messages with users of the VMS Personal Mail Utility. Refer to
     the Message Router for VMS Software Product Description (SPD
     26.33.xx).

                        


                                     5

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Document Processing

     The Document Processing application enables users to create,
     edit, print, delete, and read documents. The editor used is
     dependent upon the user's preference indicated in the User
     Profile. ALL-IN-1 IOS users have a choice of editing styles:
     EDT, TPU, WPS, and WPS-PLUS.

     EDT, TPU, and WPS are ASCII editors. EDT and TPU use keying
     conventions and terminology oriented toward the more technical
     user. WPS uses keying conventions and terminology that make it
     a subset of WPS-PLUS. WPS is available to users who have a word
     processing orientation but desire ASCII output.

     The optionally installable WPS-PLUS for ALL-IN-1 IOS is Digi-
     tal's full function word processor. This version significantly
     expands the capabilities of WPS-PLUS by providing true pro-
     portional spacing, font selection, support for PostScript[R]
     output, a new multi-column editor (up to 25 Left/Right margins
     within a ruler), the ability to create and/or edit up to 10 do-
     cuments at one time. User Enhancements include a more versatile
     status line, "Start" and "End" Control Blocks inserted together
     with a single keystroke, and many more.

     Highlights of WPS-PLUS are:

     o  Insert or Overstrike Mode.

     o  User control of margins and tabs, including left-justified,
        right-justified, and decimal-aligned tabs.

     o  Automatic Centering, Underlining, Bolding, Double Undersco-
        ring, Change Bars, and Redlining.

     o  Technical Characters and Scientific Equations editing.

     o  Support for Wide Documents, up to 256 characters.

     o  Numbered Footnotes, Paragraph Numbering to nine levels,
        Automatic Table of Contents generation, Table of Authorities,
        and Word Indexing.

     o  Widow/Orphan control and No-break Blocks.

                                     6

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     o  Column Cut and Paste.

     o  List Processing and Sort to produce form letters and maintain
        mailing lists - background processing is supported.

     o  Abbreviation and Library documents.

     o  Two-dimensional Editor for creation of diagrams and equati-
        ons.

     Time Management

     Time Management offers the facility to maintain a personal ca-
     lendar of events and tasks. An ``Events at a Glance'' screen gi-
     ves the user an editable picture of the day's events, which ma-
     kes it easy to make changes. Likewise, the ``Tasks at a Glance''
     screen gives the user an editable picture of the tasks for the
     day. These pictures are combined on an ``Events and Tasks''
     screen where other Time Management operations can be performed.

     Users can tailor Time Management and display only the screens
     and options that are of interest to them.

     Users can schedule, reschedule, or cancel an event. In an event
     involving other attendees, Time Management uses the Electro-
     nic Messaging application to deliver meeting notifications and
     confirmations. Users can also reserve unavailable time on their
     calendars. An entry in the user's calendar can be marked con-
     fidential and other users cannot read the description of the
     entry. Recurring events can be scheduled whereby an attendee's
     "Yes" reply schedules all occurrences of the meeting on the
     calendar.

     Time Management has the ability to perform a multinode scan.
     This scan will return a graph of potential attendees' free time
     prior to the scheduling of the meeting. It will scan both local
     and off-node calendars in real time.


                                     7

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     The Tasks facility is provided to track reminders, to-do lists,
     action items, and so forth. Tasks are not necessarily tied to a
     specific day or time of day. Tasks can be viewed by selection
     criteria such as: open versus closed, a range of beginning
     dates, deadlines, and so forth.

     Group Conferencing

     An ALL-IN-1 IOS user interface has been applied to Digital's VAX
     Notes application to provide the Group Conferencing feature.

     This feature gives users the ability to communicate on a many-
     to-many basis while taking advantage of ALL-IN-1's ease of use.
     Application developers can benefit from VAX Notes being inte-
     grated at the API level in developing business or professional-
     specific applications that can use this conferencing capability.

     Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Support

     ALL-IN-1 IOS provides support for the following new data types:

     o  DDIF - the standard CDA encoding format

     o  DOTS - the format for packing and transferring composite CDA
        documents

     o  DTIF - the CDA encoding format for tables

     o  PS - the final form PostScript document format

     Users will be able to send and receive these document types in
     mail, store them in their filing cabinet, read, print, copy, and
     convert them.

     ALL-IN-1 IOS allows the datatypes to be read, with the exception
     of PostScript. The quality of formatting of the displayed data
     depends on the CDA facilities provided by the underlying VMS
     system. ALL-IN-1 IOS uses the CDA character cell formatter,
     which gives improved results with correct formatting and the
     inclusion of externally referenced files.

                                     8

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     ALL-IN-1 IOS will attempt to print CDA documents in PostScript
     if the destination printer is capable of it; otherwise, ALL-IN-1
     IOS will convert the document to ASCII text before printing.

     The CDA conversion function will be used to convert to/from the
     new datatypes.

     If a user attempts to edit any CDA document using a standard
     editor, the normal handling will result in a message telling the
     user that the document format is not supported by the editor.
     However, the user can convert a CDA document into a suitable
     format for editing and then use the appropriate editor. Through
     conversion, there is a potential for formatting attributes to be
     lost.

     CDA Base Services supports the ALL-IN-1 IOS File Cabinet, thus
     allowing documents live-linked by any CDA application. Users
     will also be able to unpack composite documents into the File
     Cabinet.

     Application programmers will have access to the CDA tools
     through the provision of API functions.

     Communications

     The Communications application enables users to access other
     computer systems without needing to understand anything about
     communication technology.

     For more knowledgeable users, entire communications sessions
     can be automated through the use of Control Documents (Control
     Documents are standard ALL-IN-1 documents that contain a set
     of special commands). Connection to other computer systems is
     fully automated if autodial modems or hardwired connections
     are permitted. The connection is by means of a VMS terminal
     port (RS232 type) and can be connected to any computer system
     supporting such terminal types.


                                     9

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Facilities are also provided to transfer files to and from a
     DECmate II, DECmate III, VMS, and in or out of the user's file
     cabinet.

     Desk Calculator

     The Desk Calculator enables the user to perform interactive cal-
     culations and include the results in documents. Desk Calculator
     operates in two modes: Calculator and Formula. Formula mode is
     used for complicated formulas that combine trigonometric and
     arithmetic functions. Calculator Mode is used for simple arith-
     metic computations. The alternate keypad is operated the same
     way as a standard calculator.

     Directories

     The Directories subsystem provides access and maintenance to
     directories available to the user. The user can view a direc-
     tory, maintained by the system manager, that contains telephone
     numbers and addresses. A directory of all the ALL-IN-1 IOS users
     can also be viewed.

     Facilities are provided for the user to maintain and view a
     personal telephone directory, nicknames, and distribution lists.

     With the installation of Distributed Directory Service, ALL-IN-1
     IOS provides the user with the ability to perform mail directory
     searches on defined criteria such as name, department, location,
     and organization.

     System-wide Features

     Menu Navigation

     Applications are accessed through a hierarchy of menus. Experi-
     enced users can bypass menus in a simple manner.

     The user can interrupt their current activity to read a new mail
     message, display the current time, or to access Time Management,
     Directories, Desk Calculator, and Scratch Pad.

                                    10

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Users familiar with VMS commands can have direct access to the
     commands without leaving ALL-IN-1 IOS.

     Two styles of user interface are provided. One interface uses
     menus similar to other ALL-IN-1 applications and the other
     interface (hard-copy mode) is utilized, for efficiency, mainly
     over dial-up lines. This mode does not display the full screen
     menu but displays the menu in a strip form.

     Help

     Users can invoke Help for any part of ALL-IN-1 IOS by pressing
     the HELP key. The HELP facility provides basic information on
     the function in question without the user having to reference
     the documentation.

     On-line Training

     Users can learn how to use the system using the on-line Training
     facilities. Training leads the user through sets of interactive
     screens and explains how the various features of ALL-IN-1 IOS
     work. A New Features module is provided to aid experienced ALL-
     IN-1 IOS users.

     User-Defined Processes

     User-Defined Processes (UDPs) automate frequently repeated key
     sequences. There is no limit to the number of UDPs or the number
     of keystrokes that can be stored in a UDP. One UDP can invoke
     another UDP.

     Document Handling

     Document Reservation allows each user exclusive use of a docu-
     ment while editing.

     The Document handling model makes a clear distinction between
     revisable and final form documents. The model provides clear
     separation of formatting and printing, so that formatting of
     documents can be performed separately from printing.

                                    11

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     The background formatter provides CDA formatting, which en-
     ables CDA formatting to be performed in both foreground and
     background.

     Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports
     the document's final form. If the destination does not support
     the final form, then, where possible, the document is converted
     to a format that is supported, or the user will be advised to
     print to a different printer.

     Printing

     The Printing facility provides the user the ability to specify
     where a document is to be printed, the number of copies, and the
     output format. The output can be directed to any of the printers
     available to the ALL-IN-1 IOS user, another document, or to
     the user's terminal. Documents that specify Runoff handling
     are automatically processed by Digital Standard Runoff (DSR)
     before output. Printing is handled in the background, freeing
     the terminal for other actions when interaction with the print
     formatter is not needed.

     Printer level checking ensures the print destination supports
     the document's final form format.

     Print and LPS print options (LPS20 and LPS40) can be specified
     during a print operation. System-defined and user-defined print
     styles can be utilized for improved ease-of-use. Throughput of
     jobs during a multiple print operation has been improved.

     Job Services

     ALL-IN-1 IOS provides users the ability to perform operations on
     their jobs in print, batch, and server queues. Using the mul-
     tiple select indexing capability, users can get information on
     jobs, delete jobs, edit their attributes, and restart currently
     executing jobs.


                                    12

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Management of queues and jobs can be performed within ALL-IN-1
     IOS. Managers can assign one or more users to manage specific
     local queues.

     Profile

     Each ALL-IN-1 IOS user has a user profile that contains informa-
     tion pertaining to the user.

     The user can access and modify part of their user profile in-
     cluding full name, address, telephone number, department, and
     title. In addition, user preference information (such as work
     week and working hours, editing style, mail notification, and
     read receipt handling) can be modified.

     The System Manager maintains information such as user privile-
     ges, default directory, and form library access.

     Index Select

     A user can create an index selection list by selecting or de-
     selecting objects from the index. Operations (such as print,
     delete, cross-file, and so forth) can be performed on the list
     as if they were a single entity. An index menu lists the options
     available to the current selected index. Within an index, a user
     can scroll either forward or backward.

     International Support

     ALL-IN-1 IOS is designed to support multi-lingual operations.
     This support is subject to availability of the specific trans-
     lation (refer to the System Support Addendum SSA 30.94.xx-A).
     ALL-IN-1 IOS can be deployed in a multi-lingual network and can
     support multi-lingual operations on a single system. However,
     all language kits, including U.S. English, must be the same
     version.

                      

                                    13

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     System Management

     The System Management utilities are used to perform routine
     maintenance of ALL-IN-1 IOS, such as scheduling and rescheduling
     of housekeeping procedures, management of printers, direct
     maintenance of network and DDS profiles, metering, and quota
     management of the shared area. A system manager has the option
     of creating a non-VMS privileged system administrator for the
     purpose of administering the management of the following: user
     accounts (create, delete, move, rename), document archiving,
     system distribution lists, scheduling of housekeeping tasks,
     monitoring of ALL-IN-1 exception and information reports, and
     the initiation of ALL-IN-1 shutdown.

     ALL-IN-1 IOS supplies a metering facility that provides system
     managers the ability to collect resource usage within ALL-IN-
     1 IOS sessions for predefined events. Application developers
     can define and create their own additional meters. Meters will
     record the number of times a meter is called, CPU usage, Direct
     I/O, Buffered I/O and Page Faults. Metered events can also be
     collected by DECtrace, if it is installed on the system. This
     provides facilities for managing and reporting the information
     collected.

     Customization and Application Development

     ALL-IN-1 IOS is a form-driven system that uses the VAX FMS
     (Forms Management System). For more information on VAX FMS,
     refer to the Software Product Description (SPD 26.10.xx).

     In conjunction with VAX FMS and VAX FMS Form Language Trans-
     lator, the ALL-IN-1 Application Development utilities allow
     changes to be made to the ALL-IN-1 system. ALL-IN-1 IOS can be
     altered to fit customer-specific requirements and provides a
     platform for application development and integration. ALL-IN-1
     IOS provides a programming interface to common functions and
     mechanisms to pass control from one application or function to
     another (i.e. Flow Control). These functions have been enhanced
     in ALL-IN-1 IOS.


                                    14

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Customization Management provides support for additional element
     types. All customizable element types that ship with ALL-IN-1
     IOS are supported, as well as support for customer's own element
     types.

     Installing and managing customizations to applications is sup-
     ported through the introduction of application areas. Support
     for customized corporate systems is provided through the use of
     application areas. In addition, transferring customizations and
     applications from one system to another is also supported.

     Context sensitive menu options are available, which allow the
     display and choice of only those menu options relevant to a
     particular element type.

     Customization management provides enhanced features for the pro-
     grammer and manager. This includes improved reporting, notifying
     the manager pending request, and request completion notifica-
     tions. ALL-IN-1 IOS also introduces the concept of Application
     Maintainer, so that the ALL-IN-1 System Manager does not have
     to be solely responsible for the management of new or modified
     applications.

     The features within Customization Management allow system mana-
     gers and application programmers to modify their standard ALL-
     IN-1 system in a controlled and disciplined manner. It provides
     the ability to create, modify, index, and control customizati-
     ons as well as providing a modification history record for each
     customization.

     PC Server for ALL-IN-1 Clients

     ALL-IN-1 IOS provides server support for PCs by implementing
     client/server technology. The license for ALL-IN-1 IOS allows
     usage of the ALL-IN-1 DESKtop Server for VMS. The Media Kit must
     be ordered separately. For more details on the capabilities of
     the server and available clients, refer to the ALL-IN-1 DESKtop
     Server for VMS Software Product Description (SPD 31.71.xx).

                                 

                                    15

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     IBM[R] 3270 Terminal Support

     ALL-IN-1 IOS can run on the following IBM terminal keyboards
     on CUT mode terminals that are supported using the CMX04 option
     card in a DECserver 550:

     o  122 Key Typewriter (native mode)

     o  122/104 Key Typewriter (emulation mode)

     o  102 Key Typewriter

     o  87 Key Typewriter

     The ALL-IN-1 Kit contains a 3270 keyboard Quick Reference Card
     showing the ALL-IN-1 functions.

     Documentation

     The following documentation is standard with ALL-IN-1 IOS:

     o  Read Me First

     o  System Management Documentation:

        -  Release Notes (on-line)

        -  ALL-IN-1 Installation Guide

        -  Differences from ALL-IN-1 V2.4 (on-line, part of the
           Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool (CART))

        -  Management Guide

        -  Mail Management Guide

        -  CDA Converter Library Documentation

        -  Message Router Documentation

        -  VMSmail Gateway Documentation

        -  VAX FMS V2.4 Installation Guide

        -  VAX Notes Installation Guide

     o  Application Development Reference Guides:

        -  Application Programming: Getting Started

                                    16

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


        -  Application Programming: Guide

        -  Application Programming: Using Customization Management

        -  Application Programming: Reference Volume 1, 2

        -  Application Programming: FMS Reference

        -  Application Programming: User Interface Standards

        -  Application Programming: Mini Reference

        -  Application Programming: Index

     o  General User Documentation:

        -  ALL-IN-1 User's Handbook

        -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Mini Reference

        -  Keyboard Cards

     o  Super User Documentation:

        -  ALL-IN-1 User's Reference

        -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS User's Reference

        -  ALL-IN-1 Administration Guide

        -  ALL-IN-1 WPS-PLUS Printer Characteristics

        -  Keyboard Cards

        -  Making the Transition to Proportional Printing

     Additional copies of these manuals can be purchased separately.

     Customers wishing to modify the documentation to reflect the
     customization of their ALL-IN-1 system should contact their
     local Digital Sales Office for information.

                                    17

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
      for VMS, Version 3.0


     SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

     In order to facilitate customization of ALL-IN-1 IOS, several
     source code modules are provided on all available distribution
     media for this product. This source code is provided without any
     warranty of any kind, either express or implied.

     Note: VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language is required if .B32,
     .BLI, or .REQ modules are to be used in customizing ALL-IN-1
     IOS. VAX BLISS-32 is not a prerequisite for the construction of
     site-defined functions.

     INSTALLATION

     Only customers with experience in managing VMS and ALL-IN-1
     should attempt installation of this product. Digital recommends
     that all other customers purchase Digital's Installation Ser-
     vices. These services provide for installation of the software
     product by an experienced Digital Software Specialist.

     The CART (Conflict Checking and Resolution Tool)

     This tool is included as part of the installation procedures,
     but should be run prior to the upgrade to ALL-IN-1 IOS. It ex-
     amines the customizations on the existing system and signals
     what changes are required to migrate applications and custo-
     mizations. It contains a number of procedures which check for
     changed messages, mandatory changes, and a checklist generated
     from the Differences document. An option allows the Differences
     document to be printed prior to an upgrade to ALL-IN-1 IOS.

     Co-existent Systems

     This facility allows the installation of ALL-IN-1 IOS on a sy-
     stem already running either ALL-IN-1 V2.3 or V2.4. It allows
     customers to evaluate new functionality and to plan the migra-
     tion of their existing applications. No sharing of data takes
     place, but the ALL-IN-1 IOS system is fully functional.

                                    18

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Note: Co-existent systems cannot be merged. The ALL-IN-1 Instal-
     lation Guide describes the proper procedure for transferring
     customizations.

     Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 30.94.xx-A) for
     availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
     software.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the
     System Support Addendum (SSA 30.94.xx-A).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS


     o  VMS Operating System

     o  DECnet-VAX end-node is required

     o  VAX FMS (included in the ALL-IN-1 Kit)

     Note: ALL-IN-1 and ALL-IN-1 STARTER cannot co-exist on the same
     system.

     COUNTRY COMPONENT SOFTWARE

     For information on country-specific modifications to this pro-
     duct, refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 30.94.xx-A).

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software Licenses: QL-AAAE*-**
     Software Media: QA-AAAEA-H*
     Complete Documentation Kit: QA-AAAEA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-AAAE*-**

                             

                                    19

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     Additional Documentation

     ALL-IN-1/US Management Documentation:
        QA-AAAAB-GZ

     ALL-IN-1/US AP&I Documentation Kit:
        QA-AAAAC-GZ

     ALL-IN-1 File Cabinet Server API Documentation Kit:
        Documentation Kit: QA-AAAAL-GZ

     ALL-IN-1 General User Documentation Kit:
        Documentation Kit: QA-AAAEM-GZ

     ALL-IN-1 Super User Documentation Kit:
        Documentation Kit: QA-AABEA-GZ

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on availa-
        ble licenses, services, and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
     formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact
     your local Digital office.

     License Management Facility Support:

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Faci-
     lity.

     License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited
     System Use plus Personal Use basis.

     Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual to
     use the layered product.

     In addition, ALL-IN-1 provides a Personal Licensing Reporting
     Tool. System Managers and Administrators can easily recognize
     when the authorized (purchased) personal license limit has been
     reached or exceeded.

                                    20

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0


     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of services and options are available from Digital.
     For more information, contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Inc.

     [R]  IBM and ProPrinter are registered trademarks of Internatio-
          nal Business Machines Corporation.

     [R]  Toshiba is a registered trademark of Kabushiki Kaisha
          Toshiba.

     [R]  HP, DeskJet, and LaserJet are registered trademarks of
          Hewlett-Packard Corporation.










                                    21

 


     ALL-IN-1/BRITISH Integrated Office System Server   SPD 30.94.04
     for VMS, Version 3.0



     [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, ALL-IN-1, CDA, CI, CompacTape, DEC,
          DECchart, DECdx, DECdx/RSTS, DEClaser, DECmate, DECnet,
          DECpage, DECnet-VAX, DECtrace, DECtalk, DECterm, DECwrite,
          DECserver, DECstation, DECwindows, DDIF, DX, EDT, LA50,
          LA75, LJ250, LN03, LN03 PLUS, LN03R, LQP02, LQP03, Micro-
          VAX, PrintServer, Professional, Rainbow, RSX, TOPS-20, TK,
          VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXmate, VAX DATATRIEVE, VAX FMS,
          VAX Notes, VAX RALLY, VAX TEAMDATA, VAX VTX, VAXstation,
          VAXserver, VMS, VT, WPS, and WPS-PLUS are trademarks of
          Digital Equipment Corporation.




























                                    22
