 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS, Version 1.1      SPD 39.59.00

 DESCRIPTION

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL is an electronic messaging application which implements
 the international messaging standards set by the CCITT X.400 P2 rec-
 ommendations. It provides a means of exchanging messages and attached
 data with other users, and is a consistent user interface across het-
 erogeneous desktop devices in a client/server implementation.

 Layered on top of Digital Equipment Corporation's VAX Message Router
 (SPD 26.33.xx), ALL-IN-1 MAIL interacts with all other MAILbus gate-
 ways and complementary products.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL is a client/server implementation supporting Video Ter-
 minals, DOS[1] PCs, the Microsoft[R] Windows[TM] Environment, Apple[R] Mac-
 intosh[R] PCs, DECwindows VMS workstations, and other X11 display de-
 vices. ALL-IN-1 MAIL represents an upgrade path for current users of
 Digital's VMS Personal Mail Utility (VMSmail) or DECwindows VMSmail.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL has no technical dependency whatever on the ALL-IN-1 in-
 tegrated office product. It may be used entirely independent of that
 product. DOS and DECwindows clients are also available which connect
 directly into the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system base and do not
 require the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server. For more information, refer to the
 ALL-IN-1 DESKtop for DOS Software Product Description (SPD 50.20.xx)
 and ALL-IN-1 Services for DECwindows (SPD 33.22.xx).

 ____________________
   For the purposes of this Software Product Description, IBM[R]'s Per-
   sonal Computer Disk Operating System, Microsoft Corporation's MS-DOS[R],
   and COMPAQ[R] Computer Corporation's COMPAQ-DOS are referred to sim-
   ply as DOS.

                               DIGITAL                 February 1992

                                                         AE-PNDEA-TK

 

 Client software performs services for the user. This software usually
 resides on an intelligent desktop device and takes advantage of the
 processing power on the desk. The VMS clients (for Video Terminals or
 DECwindows devices) run on VMS and must reside within the same node
 or VAXcluster as the server.

 Clients are connected to the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server which performs local-
 and wide-area network delivery services.

 Transport between ALL-IN-1 MAIL Servers and between ALL-IN-1 MAIL and
 the other products in the ALL-IN-1 Phase II product family is performed
 by the VAX Message Router. Optional gateways may also be connected to
 the VAX Message Router as needed for mail transfer in a multi-vendor
 environment.

 A user might alternately use an intelligent workstation in the office,
 a video terminal at home, and a DOS laptop PC while traveling. Clients
 are provided for all three situations/and more, all using the same user
 mailbox and files on the server.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL adheres to the National Institute for Science and Tech-
 nology (NIST) profile of 1984 CCITT X.400 recommendations. It provides
 a level of messaging service compatible with that of the electronic
 messaging subsystem of the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system, and adds
 new service elements defined in X.400 and ALL-IN-1 MAIL.

 This document describes three of the components of the ALL-IN-1 MAIL
 product family: the Server, the client for Video Terminals, and the
 client for DECwindows. For information on other available components,
 refer to ALL-IN-1 MAIL Product Family Software Product Description (SPD
 31.51.xx).

 Features







                                  2

 

 Compatibility with VMSmail

 Users can migrate easily from VMSmail to ALL-IN-1 MAIL. The interfaces
 are logical extensions of the VMSmail interface, and commands and ser-
 vices will be familiar. Addresses and distribution lists used in VMS-
 mail can be used in ALL-IN-1 MAIL. From the VMS-resident clients, nick-
 name logicals may be used. Most addresses used in VMSmail distribu-
 tion lists may be used in ALL-IN-1 MAIL with similar restrictions as
 found when using such a list from another node. (Refer to product doc-
 umentation for details.)

 No file cabinet conversion is required for either of the VMS-based in-
 terfaces. A one-time file cabinet conversion is required to make VMS-
 mail messages available from the PC.

 Messages can be exchanged with VMSmail on the same system or elsewhere
 in the DECnet network by means of the VAX Message Router VMSmail Gate-
 way. This is included in the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Wide Area Network Server
 Package or can be purchased as an option.

 Users can select an editor for use in ALL-IN-1 MAIL. Any editor called
 or spawned under VMSmail can be called or spawned from ALL-IN-1 MAIL.

 Compatibility with ALL-IN-1

 Messages can be exchanged with the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system
 by means of the VAX Message Router using the same style of address-
 ing.

 The services of ALL-IN-1 MAIL are compatible with services in the elec-
 tronic messaging subsystem of ALL-IN-1. For example, receipt requests
 from either product are honored by the other. New features defined in
 the CCITT X.400 P2 recommendations may be implemented in stages by both
 products.

 Distribution lists created in the ALL-IN-1 integrated office system
 can be used in ALL-IN-1 MAIL. They work with the same restrictions found
 when sending a list to another ALL-IN-1 office system node. (Refer to
 product documentation for details.) Addressing strings used in the ALL-IN-1
 office system work equally well in ALL-IN-1 MAIL, with the exception

                                  3

 

 of addressing strings which invoke ALL-IN-1's foreign protocol hook
 (those beginning with underscore).

 X.400 Message Transport

 Messages can be exchanged with other ALL-IN-1 MAIL domains and ser-
 vices which meet international X.400 P2 conformance criteria. Confor-
 mance testing is being done in the United States and Europe.

 In ALL-IN-1 MAIL, each customer network is referred to as a "domain."
 Within a customer network, messages are transported by means of DEC-
 net wherever DECnet is available. Transport to another vendor's X.400
 service requires an OSI networking stack and the VAX Message Router
 X.400 Gateway (MRX).

 OSI message exchange requires at least one MRX Gateway in each Dig-
 ital domain (usually one per customer network). Refer to the VAX Mes-
 sage Router X.400 Gateway Software Product Description (SPD 27.50.xx)
 for hardware/software requirements.

 Supporting the Multi-Vendor Environment

 MAILbus offers a series of off-the-shelf gateways and a gateway de-
 velopment kit to create other gateways for message exchange with other
 vendors' proprietary mail systems. Refer to the Software Product De-
 scription (SPD) for the appropriate products' hardware/software re-
 quirements.

 Directory Services

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL uses Digital's Enterprise-wide Directory Service (DDS)
 as its user address directory. This distributed directory, available
 as part of the VAX Message Router, links ALL-IN-1 MAIL, the ALL-IN-1
 integrated office system, the gateways, and any other agents sharing
 its directory services.

 Users can access the DDS directory while addressing a memo or creat-
 ing an entry in their Personal Address Book (PAB). The PAB is an in-
 tegral part of ALL-IN-1 MAIL and is located in each user's personal

                                  4

 

 mail account, or in the local file store on the intelligent client de-
 vice. The user references a PAB entry by using its user-assigned nick-
 name. Distribution lists may contain nicknames.

 The DDS directory is a networking resource available only while the
 server connection is in place. If messages are created and addressed
 on the Workstation in the absence of the server connection, the user
 can still use locally stored nicknames and distribution lists, or type
 the full address string.

 Distribution Lists

 Distribution lists are simple text files stored in the user's mail area.
 These distribution lists can be shared among a group of users by us-
 ing the VMS Access Control facilities.

























                                  5

 

 Filing Services

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL provides a filing structure of drawers and folders as
 well as access to RMS files. Filing services are similar in nature to
 VMSmail. A DECwindows device with local storage may choose to have one
 or more drawers on the local device in addition to one or more draw-
 ers on the server.

 VMS-based drawers may be shared among groups of users, with each user's
 privileges defined by VMS access controls.

 Message Retrieval

 Messages can be retrieved based on user specification of certain header
 fields and filing structures.

 File Formats

 As detailed below, a number of different editors can be used with each
 interface. The editor most appropriate to a DECwindows device will be
 different from that which is preferred on a video terminal. A vari-
 ety of file formats come with these editors. ALL-IN-1 MAIL is designed
 to handle various file formats with features that allow configuration
 for maximum readability of messages. The system allows for the auto-
 mated handling of messages in ASCII, DDIF, WPS-PLUS and DX, and for
 invocation of other file formatting or conversion routines that con-
 form to Digital's Compound Document Architecture (CDA).

 The client can be set-up to invoke viewers or applications based on
 the file type of each attachment.

 Beginning with Version 1.1, ALL-IN-1 MAIL can be set to perform au-
 tomatic conversions of message components as they are delivered, us-
 ing optional VMS-resident conversion services such as Digital's CDA
 Converter Library for VMS (SPD 31.31.xx) or other third-party convert-
 ers such as KEYpak[R] for VMS (SPD 32.71.xx). This is an additional-cost
 option. Users can register their file format preferences in the pro-
 file.

 For advice on interchange of specific file formats, especially across
 gateways, consult your local Digital office.

                                  6

 

 There may be some difficulties exchanging DDIF documents with the ALL-IN-1
 integrated office system, Version 2.3. Contact your local Digital of-
 fice for details.

 Help

 Users can get help for ALL-IN-1 MAIL using the Help facility. Help pro-
 vides basic information on how to perform the function in question with-
 out the user having to reference the documentation.

 Printing

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL takes advantage of Digital's standard VMS printing fa-
 cilities provided under VMS. The user can specify the printer desti-
 nation and options.

 Messaging Functions

 Users can create, read, and send messages using the commands provided.
 Messages can contain information in a variety of file format types in-
 cluding Digital's Document Interchange Format for compound documents
 (DDIF).

 Messages can be forwarded to another destination. Message attachments
 may include another message, a document or file, or even a binary file.

 Answering a message is easy. The system automatically addresses the
 answer for transfer back to the original sender. The user can reply
 to the sender, all the original recipients, or to a reply-to list.

 Messages can be addressed to one or more users at any valid MAILbus
 destination (e.g., VMSmail, ULTRIX mail, X.400, etc.) worldwide. File
 formats may possibly be modified by gateways or user agents in order
 to make the memo readable to the recipient. Not all file formats are
 supported by all gateways and user agents. Care should be taken in plan-
 ning the network capabilities to insure maximum readability of memos.




                                  7

 

 Notifications

 Delivery and Receipt tags can be attached to a message. These tags cause
 a notification message to be generated and returned to the origina-
 tor when the message is delivered or received.

 On-line Notification of New Mail

 The user can choose to receive on-line notification of the arrival of
 new messages.

 Message Redirection

 The user can request that all incoming messages be automatically redi-
 rected to a secondary address.

 Priority-based Delivery

 Users can choose priority for message delivery. The grade of deliv-
 ery (express, first class, second class) can be specified. Other trans-
 port services are also available.

 Message Classes

 The user can set a number of indicators to give the recipient infor-
 mation about the nature of the message: Importance (high, medium, low),
 Sensitivity (not restricted, personal, private, company confidential).

 Expiration dates may be applied to messages to help facilitate auto-
 matic removal over time.

 These fields may also be used to locate classes of messages in the file
 cabinet.

 System Management

 Required local system management for the mail system is minimal and
 usually automated. A system manager or administrator is required to
 open a standard VMS account; when the user first accesses ALL-IN-1 MAIL,
 basic account setup functions are performed automatically; most rou-
 tine functions can be performed by the users.

                                  8

 

 There are no special utilities to run for file cabinet maintenance.
 One or all user areas on the server can be backed up or restored us-
 ing standard VMS utilities. Management of the VMS-based file struc-
 tures available to the user are under the control of the user.

 The mail management design adheres to the coordinated management sys-
 tem used by the MAILbus family of products. The ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server
 provides a management utility which allows configuration changes to
 be made, and the status of the mail system to be checked. Invoking this
 utility via the VMS SYSMAN utility allows such operations to be man-
 aged centrally.

 Internationalization

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL is designed to support multi-lingual operations. It can
 be deployed in a multi-lingual network and can support multi-lingual
 operations on a single server system. For more information, refer to
 the System Support Addendum (SSA 39.59.00-x).

 For clients in other languages, refer to:
 
    ALL-IN-1 MAIL          SPD 26.J6.xx
    FRANÇAIS

    ALL-IN-1 MAIL ITAL-    SPD 26.J7.xx
    IANO

    ALL-IN-1 MAIL          SPD 26.J8.xx
    DEUTSCH

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL Documentation

 Documentation of the user procedures are included in the individual
 client kits. The Server media kit includes system management documen-
 tation, as well as the software and installation instructions for the
 Server and the DECwindows and Video Terminals clients.



                                  9

 

 Packaging

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals, ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS DECwindows
 and ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server for VMS are layered software products which
 reside on VMS.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals looks like VMSmail but communicates
 directly with the Message Router, and uses a rich protocol which ac-
 cesses the full range of messaging services. This client is co-located
 with the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server. It provides ordinary terminals with the
 same access to the services of ALL-IN-1 MAIL. Because it shares the
 same server with the other ALL-IN-1 MAIL clients, it can be used as
 a work-at-home alternative for users of more capable desktop devices.

 Compatibility with VMSmail

 Users can migrate from the VMS Personal Mail Utility (VMSmail) to ALL-IN-1
 MAIL for Video Terminals. The command-line interface is a logical ex-
 tension of the VMSmail command interface, and commands and services
 in ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals will feel familiar. Addresses,
 nickname logicals, and distribution lists used in VMSmail may be used
 in ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals can locate and view messages in the
 existing VMSmail file cabinet, and copy them into the ALL-IN-1 MAIL
 file cabinet.

 Editors

 The default editor is a simple text editor.

 The VMS-based user can choose from a number of different Digital ed-
 itors as well as third-party editors. Any editor which can be called
 or spawned from VMSmail can be called or spawned from ALL-IN-1 MAIL.




                                 10

 

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS DECwindows

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS DECwindows is a DECwindows implementation of the
 client software component of ALL-IN-1 MAIL. It adheres to the DECwin-
 dows Style Guide and can be used either on a workstation that is a mem-
 ber of the same Local Area VAXcluster as the server software or re-
 motely using an X11 display server device supported by Digital.

 Access from Other Platforms

 Since ALL-IN-1 MAIL conforms to the DECwindows standards, users of de-
 vices which have X-servers available can access the mail software. In
 this case, the message composition and storage activities are not han-
 dled on the desktop device but on the ALL-IN-1 MAIL platform. The win-
 dows display is handled by the desktop device. This feature provides
 access for additional desktop devices that conform to the DECwindows
 standards.























                                 11

 

 Compatibility with VMSmail and DECwindows VMSmail

 Users can migrate from the VMS Personal Mail Utility (VMSmail) or DECwin-
 dows VMSmail to ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS DECwindows. The interface is sim-
 ilar to the DECwindows VMSmail interface; commands and services in ALL-IN-1
 MAIL for VMS DECwindows will feel familiar. Addresses, nickname log-
 icals, and distribution lists used in VMSmail may be used in ALL-IN-1
 MAIL for VMS DECwindows.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS DECwindows can copy messages from the existing
 VMSmail file cabinet into the ALL-IN-1 MAIL file cabinet.

 Editors

 The default editor is a simple text editor.

 The DECwindows user can choose from a number of different Digital ed-
 itors as well as third-party editors. Editors called or spawned from
 DECwindows VMSmail can be called or spawned from ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS
 DECwindows, including such windows editors as DECwrite.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 39.59.00-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server for VMS to support any or all of the clients,
 and for ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  DECnet-VAX

 The ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server delivers messages among all the users of any
 combination of the available ALL-IN-1 MAIL clients which use this one
 server. Thus, all users on a single VAXcluster or on a single LAN may
 exchange messages via a single ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server.

                                 12

 

 The VAX Message Router is required to exchange messages with users on
 other servers or other electronic messaging products. The Message Router
 may be co-resident with the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server or may reside on an-
 other DECnet node. To communicate with VMSmail users, the VMSmail Gate-
 way is also required.

 Gateway

 Since the Message Router is packaged with the VMSmail Gateway, choose
 ONE of the following packages:

 o  VAX Message Router
    or

 o  VAX Message Router VMSmail Gateway

 PATHWORKS for VMS and/or PATHWORKS for Macintosh (VMS components) are
 required on VMS to support any DOS and/or Macintosh clients using PATH-
 WORKS as the connection between client and server. (For details, re-
 fer to the SPDs for relevant client components.)

 Most configurations will require Message Router, and all sites migrat-
 ing from or interacting with a VMSmail product will require the VMS-
 mail Gateway. The ALL-IN-1 MAIL Wide Area Network Server Package com-
 bines these underlying software components with the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server.

 For the Client ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS DECwindows on the
 Workstation:

 o  VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)

 o  DECnet-VAX

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 39.59.00-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows.

 Country Component Software

 For information on country-specific modifications to this product, re-
 fer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 39.59.00-x).

                                 13

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Operation of this product requires an ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server and at least
 one ALL-IN-1 MAIL Client.

 Server Options:

 Choose one of the following server options:

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL Local Area Network Server Package:

 This package is used in implementations where there is no requirement
 to exchange mail beyond a single server, or where the Message Router
 is already owned:

 Software License and Media (TK50 only):
    QB-YFTA9-AA
 Software Product Services: QT-YCZA*-**

 This package includes license, media and documentation for ALL-IN-1
 MAIL Server implemented on any single CPU.

 Choose this kit to implement ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server on a node, VAXclus-
 ter, or Local Area Network where the Message Router is already licensed,
 or where it is not necessary to connect to any other node, or any other
 messaging product.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL Wide Area Network Server Package:

 This package is used in multi-server configurations, or where there
 is a requirement to work with another messaging product:

 Software Licenses: QL-YFUA9-J*
 Software Product Services: QT-YCZA*-**

 This package includes licenses for ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server, Message Router,
 VMSmail Gateway, and Message Router X.400 Gateway. Media and documen-
 tation update service for these components must be purchased separately
 depending upon which components will be implemented: Refer to service

                                 14

 

 offerings for ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server for VMS, plus one of the two gate-
 way packages: Message Router VMSmail Gateway (SPD 26.33.xx) or Mes-
 sage Router X.400 Gateway (SPD 27.50.xx). Service on either gateway
 covers service for the Message Router itself.

 Software Media: QA-YFUAA-**

 This package includes media and documentation for ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server,
 Message Router, and VMSmail Gateway. Media and documentation for the
 Message Router X.400 Gateway must be purchased separately.

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server for VMS:

 Software Licenses: QL-YCZ99-**
 Software Media: QA-YCZA*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YCZAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YCZA*-**

 The media kit includes media and documentation for the server, and me-
 dia only (no documentation or license) for the DECwindows and Video
 Terminals clients. Refer to Client Options for licensing information
 for these clients.

 Choose this package to order licenses and media kits separately, or
 to add licenses for more than one CPU in a VAXcluster.

 Client Options:

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for VMS DECwindows:

 Software Licenses: QL-VZ7A*-**
 Software Media: Included with the server media
 Software Documentation: QA-VZ7AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VZ7A*-**

 ALL-IN-1 MAIL for Video Terminals:

 Software Licenses: QL-YHSA9-**
 Software Media: Included with the server media
 Software Documentation: QA-YHSAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YHSA*-*

                                 15

 

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 The above information is valid at time of release. Please contact your
 local Digital office for the most up-to-date information.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 The VMS layered products support the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Server are allocated on an Unlim-
 ited System Use plus Personal Use basis.

 License units for the ALL-IN-1 MAIL Clients are allocated on an Un-
 limited System Use plus Personal Use basis.

 This layered product offers a Personal Use license. Each Personal Use
 license allows one identified individual to use the layered product.

 The ALL-IN-1 MAIL Wide Area Network Server Package licenses its com-
 ponent products on a cluster-wide power rating basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.




                                 16

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 
 [R]  Apple, AppleTalk, and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Com-
      puter, Inc.

 [R]  COMPAQ is a registered trademark of COMPAQ Computer Corpora-
      tion.

 [R]  IBM and PROFS are registered trademarks of International Busi-
      ness Machines Corporation.

 [R]  KEYpak is a registered trademark of Keyword Office Technolo-
      gies, Ltd.

 [R]  MCI and MCI Mail are registered trademarks of MCI Communica-
      tions Corporation.

 [R]  MS, MS-DOS, and Microsoft are registered trademarks of Mi-
      crosoft Corporation.

 [R]  TYMNET is a registered trademark of British Telecommunications
      PLC.

 [TM]Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.

 [TM]Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, CDA, CI, DECnet, DECwindows,
     DECwrite, DX, MicroVAX, MicroVMS, PATHWORKS, TK, ULTRIX, VAX,
     VAXcluster, VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, and VT are trademarks
     of Digital Equipment Corporation.

                                 17
