 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5       SPD 25.03.30

           DESCRIPTION

           DECnet-VAX allows a suitably configured VMS system to par-
           ticipate as a routing or end node in DECnet computer net-
           works. With proper network planning, DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5
           networks can contain up to 1,023 nodes per network area and
           up to 63 areas per network. DECnet-VAX interfaces are stan-
           dard components of VMS for use on a local standalone sys-
           tem.

           DECnet-VAX end node and full function products are licensed
           separately for VMS. The DECnet-VAX License Product Autho-
           rization Key (PAK), when registered on a VMS system, enables
           communication between different networked systems that use
           the same protocols.

           DECnet-VAX is a Phase IV network product and is warranted
           only for use with Phase III and Phase IV products supported
           by Digital Equipment Corporation.

           DECnet-VAX offers task-to-task communications, file manage-
           ment, downline system and task loading, network command ter-
           minals, and network resource sharing capabilities using the
           Digital Network Architecture (DNA) protocols. DECnet-VAX com-
           municates with adjacent and non-adjacent Phase III and Phase
           IV nodes (adjacent nodes are connected by a single commu-
           nications line).

           VMS programs written in VAX MACRO and native mode high-level
           languages can use DECnet-VAX capabilities, but programs ex-
           ecuting in PDP-11 compatibility mode cannot use DECnet-VAX.

                                    DIGITAL            November 1991

                                                         AE-NJ32E-TE

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           The network functions available to a DECnet-VAX user depend,
           in part, on the configuration of the rest of the network.
           Each DECnet product offers its own subset of Digital Net-
           work Architecture (DNA) functions and its own set of fea-
           tures to the user. Networks consisting entirely of DECnet-VAX
           Phase IV nodes have all the functions described in this Soft-
           ware Product Description (SPD). Networks that combine dif-
           ferent DECnet implementations may limit the functions avail-
           able to the DECnet-VAX user on non-DECnet-VAX nodes since
           other DECnet implementations may not implement certain func-
           tions. Similarly, a user of another DECnet implementation
           may not be able to access all DECnet-VAX functions.

           The functions available to users on mixed networks can be
           determined by a comparison of the SPDs for the appropriate
           DECnet products.

           Routing

           A Full Function DECnet-VAX License PAK must be registered
           on a node in order for that node to operate as a routing node.
           For a node to operate as an end node, either the Full Func-
           tion or the End Node DECnet-VAX License PAK must be regis-
           tered on that node. Full Function DECnet-VAX software al-
           lows a node to be set up as either a routing node or as an
           end node.

           A DECnet-VAX node must function as a routing node whenever
           multiple circuits are used by that node. Routing nodes main-
           tain information on the paths to other nodes in the network.
           DECnet-VAX end nodes provide all the capabilities of DECnet-VAX
           routing nodes with the exception that end nodes cannot route
           messages on behalf of other nodes in the network. Since end
           nodes do not route messages, they do not need to maintain
           routing information. Consequently, end nodes initiate less
           overhead message traffic than routing nodes and, therefore,
           consume less processing power than routing nodes.




                                       2

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           Adaptive Routing is the mechanism that routing nodes use to
           ``adapt'' or choose other physical paths if the physical paths
           the routing nodes are using fail or change line cost.

           In addition to adaptive routing, which all DECnet Phase IV
           implementations use, DECnet-VAX supports area routing. Area
           routing is a method by which DECnet can send and route mes-
           sages between the nodes in different areas of the network.
           Up to 63 areas with up to 1,023 nodes per area are allowed.
           The network manager has the option of separating a network
           into areas. Area-based DECnet networks are hierarchical net-
           works and some restrictions apply to communications from nodes
           in one area to nodes in another area. However, it is not re-
           quired that all nodes in the network be DECnet-VAX or even
           Phase IV nodes. Proper network planning is essential when
           using area routing or configuring large networks. Valid topolo-
           gies are the responsibility of the customer.

           Note: Only 32 routers are supported on an extended LAN.

           A DECnet-VAX node has the ability to communicate with a re-
           mote node over multiple circuits simultaneously, as long as
           those circuits are all of equal cost AND provide the low-
           est cost path. DECnet-VAX routing nodes will split trans-
           mission of a packet load to a destination node via multi-
           ple paths if those paths are of equal lowest cost. This ca-
           pability is called Equal Cost Path Splitting. This feature
           can increase throughput of data by using all the best avail-
           able paths. In order to take full advantage of this capa-
           bility, all intermediate routing nodes should also support
           this feature and all destination nodes must support out-of-
           order packet caching.









                                       3

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           Standard DECnet-VAX Capabilities

           Task-to-Task Communication

           For most applications, task-to-task communication can be pro-
           grammed in a transparent manner where the remote task is treated
           as a full duplex, record-oriented device. Transparent op-
           eration is provided via the following interfaces: System Ser-
           vice calls, RMS calls (OPEN, GET, PUT, and CLOSE) and high-
           level language I/O statements (which are mapped to RMS calls).
           A nontransparent mode of task-to-task communication is of-
           fered by means of the System Service interface that extends
           the capabilities provided by the transparent mode. These ca-
           pabilities include support for interrupt messages and mul-
           tiple inbound connect requests.

           Using DECnet-VAX, a VMS program written in VAX MACRO or a
           native mode high-level language can exchange messages with
           other user programs. The two user programs can be on the same
           node, on adjacent Phase III or Phase IV nodes, or on any two
           non-adjacent Phase III or Phase IV nodes in the same net-
           work connected by Phase III or Phase IV routing nodes. DECnet-VAX
           imposes no special data formatting requirements on the user.

           Network Resource Access

           File Access - File access is supported to and from remote
           DECnet systems transparent to VAX MACRO and native mode high-
           level language programs using RMS. User programs can sequen-
           tially read, create, and delete files on a remote node.

           Record Access - User programs can perform record level op-
           erations such as GET, PUT, UPDATE, DELETE, FIND, and REWIND
           to access and modify files residing on a remote VMS node.
           In addition to sequential access to a file, several other
           access methods are supported through RMS using DECnet-VAX.
           These methods include random access by relative record num-
           ber, random access by key value, random access by Record File
           Address (RFA), and block I/O access by virtual block num-
           ber.

                                       4

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           Proxy Access

           Remote users can have access to up to 15 proxy accounts on
           a specific remote system. One proxy account should be des-
           ignated as the default proxy account on the remote system.

           Command Language File Management

           Most VMS Digital Command Language (DCL) commands can be used
           to perform network file operations. These commands include:
           ANALYZE, APPEND, BACKUP, CLOSE, CONVERT, COPY, CREATE, DELETE,
           DIFFERENCES, DIRECTORY, DUMP, OPEN, PRINT, PURGE, READ, SEARCH,
           SUBMIT, TYPE, and WRITE. The operation of these commands is
           transparent except for commands that invoke processing on
           a specific system (i.e., SUBMIT/REMOTE and PRINT/REMOTE).
           Only a node name added to a file specification is required
           to invoke the network capabilities via one of these commands.

           Using the COPY command, a user can transfer sequential, rel-
           ative, and indexed-sequential (ISAM) files between DECnet
           nodes that support compatible file structures and record for-
           mats. Sequential or relative files with fixed length, vari-
           able length, or variable length with fixed control field records
           can be transferred between two VMS systems. Similarly, multi-
           keyed indexed files with variable or fixed length records
           are supported.

           The SUBMIT command allows command files residing on a re-
           mote node to be submitted for execution at the remote node.
           The command file must be in the format expected by the node
           responsible for execution. Conversely, DECnet-VAX allows VMS
           command files to be received from other systems and executed.

           A new DCL command, EXCHANGE/NETWORK, which allows for the
           transfer of files to or from heterogeneous systems, is now
           available. This new command gives users the option to trans-
           fer file types between MS-DOS® or ULTRIX systems and VMS sys-
           tems regardless of record semantics. Unlike the COPY com-
           mand, which preserves file and record organization during


                                       5

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           a file transfer, this command enables the user to modify file
           and record attributes during file transfer.

           Downline System Loading

           DECnet-VAX allows for the loading of an unattended system
           using the services provided by the Maintenance Operations
           Module (MOM). MOM provides a set of maintenance operations
           over various types of circuits by using the Maintenance Op-
           erations Protocol (MOP). A loadable system is a system that
           has a load device enabled for MOP service functions and for
           which a properly formatted load file is supplied. Downline
           loading involves transferring a copy of the properly for-
           matted load file image of a remote node's operating system
           from a VMS node to the unattended target node. For example,
           DECnet-VAX permits the user to load an RSX-11S Operating Sys-
           tem file image from the VMS node downline to the target node.
           Load requests can come from the local DECnet-VAX operator
           or from the target node. Downline Loading is supported for
           Digital server products. However, this facility is not sup-
           ported over asynchronous DECnet-VAX connections.

           Downline Task Loading

           Initial task images for loadable systems can be stored on
           VMS file system devices and loaded into remote nodes. Pro-
           grams already executing on loadable RSX-11S systems can be
           checkpointed to the host VMS file system and later restored
           to main memory in the RSX-11S node running DECnet-RSX. Over-
           lays for RSX-11S tasks can also be stored on VMS file sys-
           tem devices. These features simplify the operation of net-
           work systems that do not have mass storage devices.

           This facility is not supported over asynchronous DECnet-VAX
           connections.

           Upline Dumping




                                       6

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           Memory images of adjacent RSX-11S nodes connected by DEC-
           net can be written or dumped into a file on a VMS system.
           This facility helps a programmer understand what can cause
           the RSX-11S system to crash. This facility is also supported
           for Digital server products.

           This facility is not supported over asynchronous DECnet-VAX
           connections.

           Network Command Terminal

           The DCL command, SET HOST, allows a terminal user on one DECnet-VAX
           node to establish a logical connection to another DECnet-VAX
           node or other types of DECnet nodes that use the Heteroge-
           neous Command Terminal Protocol (consult the appropriate SPDs).
           This connection makes the terminal appear physically con-
           nected to the remote system and the operator can use all the
           standard system and network utilities supported by that re-
           mote node. This capability is particularly useful for do-
           ing remote program development and allows the terminal users
           on smaller application-oriented systems to use the resources
           of larger development-oriented systems.

           VMS MAIL Utility

           VMS MAIL allows transmission of text messages between users
           of a stand-alone VAX system. The DECnet-VAX software allows
           users to send and receive VMS MAIL to or from users of other
           VMS systems that operate within the same DECnet network.

           VMS PHONE Utility

           The VMS PHONE Utility allows users to send and receive data
           interactively from one user's terminal to another user's ter-
           minal. DECnet-VAX increases the scope of VMS PHONE to al-
           low active users on different VMS systems in the same net-
           work to exchange information.

           VAXcluster Alias


                                       7

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           DECnet-VAX supports the ability to access some or all nodes
           in a VAXcluster using a separate alias node address, while
           retaining the ability to address each node in the cluster
           individually. Not all network objects may be accessed us-
           ing this mechanism. More than 64 nodes can operate within
           a cluster, but the maximum number of nodes that are allowed
           to participate in the VAXcluster Alias is 64. Refer to the
           VAXcluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) for
           relevant restrictions.

           At least one node in the VAXcluster must be configured as
           a router in order to use this feature.

           Network Management

           The Network Control Program (NCP) performs three primary func-
           tions: displaying statistical and error information, con-
           trolling network components, and testing network operation.
           These functions can be performed locally or executed at re-
           mote Phase III or Phase IV nodes that support these func-
           tions. The NCP facility allows for planning, building, tun-
           ing, and controlling DECnet networks. NCP can be used to cre-
           ate and manage networks including local node operation, re-
           mote node operation, circuits, lines, and objects.

           An operator can display the status of DECnet activity at any
           Phase III or Phase IV node in the network. The user can choose
           to display statistics related to the node itself or the com-
           munication lines attached to that node, including traffic
           and error data. The local operator can also perform many net-
           work control functions such as starting and stopping lines,
           activating the local node, and downline loading systems.

           DECnet-VAX provides network event logging to a terminal de-
           vice or disk file. Any logged event can be used to monitor,
           diagnose, and tune a network. The NCP utility can be used
           to enable and disable the event logging facility.




                                       8

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           NCP can also be used to test components of the network. NCP
           enables transmission and reception of test messages over in-
           dividual lines either between nodes or through other con-
           troller loopback arrangements. The messages can then be com-
           pared for possible errors. NCP allows the performance of a
           logical series of tests that will aid in isolating network
           problems.

           Integrated Interfaces

           DECnet-VAX interfaces are standard parts of the VMS Oper-
           ating System for use on local, standalone systems. Users can
           develop programs and procedures based upon these interfaces
           for such functions as file access and task-to-task commu-
           nication on individual systems. Since the DECnet-VAX inter-
           faces stay the same, the programs and procedures developed
           on an individual system can be used in a network environ-
           ment without being modified.

           Communications Options

           DECnet-VAX uses synchronous, asynchronous, Ethernet, FDDI,
           802.5/Token Ring, and CI communications controllers to in-
           terface with other network nodes. Synchronous controllers
           use DDCMP, either when directly connected or when connected
           via modems, to provide full or half duplex communications
           over point-to-point lines, or full duplex over multipoint
           lines. Asynchronous controllers use DDCMP, either when di-
           rectly connected or when connected via modems, to provide
           only full duplex communications over point-to-point lines.

           Note: Error Correcting and data suppression modems are not
           supported. Refer to the HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS section for
           a short description of controllers.

           Asynchronous lines are supported only to other systems run-
           ning DECnet-VAX, DECnet-RSX, PRO/DECnet, DECnet-Rainbow, DECnet-VAXmate,
           and DECnet-DOS.



                                       9

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           DDCMP operation is not supported in cases where an asynchronous
           physical communication line is emulated by lower level pro-
           tocols or communication subsystems. Examples of this include
           X.29 virtual terminals, asynchronous connections as emulated
           by terminal servers, and connections via data switches.

           The Ethernet, FDDI, and 802.5/Token Ring controllers allow
           DECnet-VAX to use these LAN technologies as its datalink trans-
           mission medium.

           The CISCE, CIBCI, CIBCA, CI780, and CI750 employ unique pro-
           tocols to provide services similar to those of DDCMP.

           VAX Packetnet System Interface (VAX P.S.I.) is the software
           product that provides an interface to X.25 Packet Switch-
           ing Data Networks (PSDNs). When DECnet-VAX is used in con-
           junction with VAX P.S.I., DECnet-VAX can use a virtual cir-
           cuit (SVC or PVC) of the PSDN as though it were a standard
           datalink to transmit messages between DECnet nodes.

           Note: Up to 128 X.25 virtual circuits are currently supported
           for Data Link Mapping (DLM), depending on CPU loading and
           capability. Refer to the VAX P.S.I. Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.40.xx) for more detailed information.

           A VMS system can be used as either a control or a tributary
           node in a multipoint environment. DECnet-VAX supports a max-
           imum of 32 tributaries controlled by one or more DMP11 or
           DMV11 control stations on a single node; a maximum of 8 trib-
           utaries can be controlled on one DMV11 multipoint line: a
           maximum of 16 tributaries can be controlled on one DMP11 mul-
           tipoint line. The DMF32 can also be used with any UNIBUS VAX
           system as a tributary node. The DMP11 can be used in point-
           to-point communications configurations in DMC11 compatibil-
           ity mode. The DMR11 is program-compatible with the DMC11 and
           is supported in DMC11 compatibility mode as well DMR11 mode.





                                      10

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           The maximum throughput for a specific tributary node is equal
           to the maximum aggregate data rate for the control node di-
           vided by the sum of the number of active tributaries plus
           one.

           When configuring a system with specific devices, please re-
           fer to the DECnet-VAX Load Unit Tables (included in this SPD)
           for calculating configuration loads and for support infor-
           mation.

           DECnet-VAX Operation

           DECnet-VAX is implemented under VMS as an Ancillary Control
           Process (ACP) and a network device driver with Digital-supplied
           executive-level components and user-level programs.

           The normal VMS protection has been incorporated in the op-
           eration of DECnet-VAX. For example, incoming connects in-
           cluding file access and file transfer requests are protected
           by the normal VMS login and file protection mechanisms. Out-
           going connects including file access and file transfer re-
           quests can include user password information that is implic-
           itly specified via NCP, or explicitly specified by the user
           for verification on the remote node.

           DECnet-VAX Configuration and Performance

           The process of configuring a DECnet-VAX node is based pri-
           marily on trade-offs of cost, performance, and functional-
           ity while satisfying the user's application requirements.
           It can be expected that network applications will range from
           low-speed, low-cost situations to those of relatively high
           performance and functionality. The performance of a given
           DECnet-VAX node is a function not only of the expected net-
           work traffic and resultant processing, but also of the amount
           of concurrent processing specific to that node. Thus, node
           performance depends on many factors including:

           o  CPU type

           o  Number and type of devices attached to the particular CPU

                                      11

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           o  Number of device interrupts per unit time

           o  Communication line(s) characteristics

           o  Number and size of buffers

           o  Message size and frequency of transmission

           o  Applications in use

           o  Size and frequency of route-through traffic (routing nodes
              only)

           It is important to note that the rate at which user data can
           be transmitted (throughput) over a communications line can
           sometimes approach, but will never exceed, the actual line
           speed. The reason is that the actual throughput is a func-
           tion of many factors, including the line quality, protocol
           overhead, topology, and network application(s), as well as
           the factors cited in this section.

           Refer to the DECnet-VAX Load Unit Tables for maximum sys-
           tem configuration information.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Note:

            1. If a device is not listed, that device is not supported
              by DECnet-VAX.

            2. An asterisk (*) by a device description indicates that
              the particular device is no longer offered as an option.

           Refer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) for hardware requirements and proces-
           sor support. Reference can be made to the configuration charts
           listed in the VMS Operating System SPD. For general device
           or controller descriptions, please refer to the Networks and
           Communications Buyers Guide.

                                      12

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           One of the following communication devices is required:

           DEUNA-AA      Ethernet controller interface.

           DELUA         Ethernet controller interface, minimum
                         revision level F1 required.

           DEBNA         Ethernet 802.3-to-VAXBI Port Controller
                         interface replacement for DEBNT. Concurrent
                         use with DEBNT is not supported. The TK50
                         /Ethernet port option is supported for
                         concurrent TK50/Ethernet operation on
                         packaged 8000-class workstation systems
                         only.

           DEBNI         Ethernet 802.3-to-VAXBI Port Controller
                         interface. Similar to DEBNA in configura-
                         tion, with increased performance, TK70 tape
                         option disabled.

           DEMNA         Ethernet/802.3-to-XMI high-performance Port
                         Controller interface. Smaller footprint
                         than DEBNI in configuration, with increased
                         performance over the DEBNI.

           DEMFA         XMI-to-FDDI high-performance Port Con-
                         troller interface.

           DMC11-AR,     Remote synchronous point-to-point inter-
           -DA*          face, supports V.24/EIA RS-232-C, maximum
                         speed 19.2 kilobits/second, full or half
                         duplex. Not supported on DWBUA Adaptors.

           DMC11-AL,     High speed local point-to-point synchronous
           -MD*          interface, speed at 56 kilobits/second via
                         coax, full or half duplex. Not supported on
                         DWBUA Adaptors.

           DMC11-AL,     High speed local point-to-point synchronous
           -MA*          interface, speed at 1,000 kilobits/second
                         via coax, full or half duplex. Not sup-
                         ported on DWBUA Adaptors.

                                      13

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           DMC11-AR,     Remote CCITT V.35 point-to-point syn-
           -FA*          chronous interface, speed up to 56 kilobits
                         /second via modems (up to 250 kilobits
                         /second via coax), full or half duplex. Not
                         supported on DWBUA Adaptors.

           DMR11-AA      Remote point-to-point synchronous inter-
                         face, supports RS-423-A up 56 to kilobits
                         /second or RS-232-C up to 19.2 kilobits
                         /second, half or full duplex.

           DMR11-AC      High speed local synchronous interface
                         with integral modem for local connection,
                         point-to-point, half or full duplex.

           DMR11-AB      Remote CCITT V.35 synchronous interface,
                         speed up to 56 kilobits/second via modems
                         (up to 1,000 kilobits/second via local
                         coax), point-to-point, half or full duplex.

           DMR11-AE      EIA RS-422 synchronous interface, speed
                         up to 1,000 kilobits/second (modem switch
                         selectable speeds: 56, 250, 500, 1,000
                         kilobits/second), point-to-point, half or
                         full duplex.

           DMP11-AA*     EIA RS-232-C up to 19.2 kilobits/second
                         or RS-423-A (up to 56 kilobits/second)
                         synchronous communication interface; can
                         be used as multipoint control or tributary
                         station; half or full duplex; configuration
                         limitations based on number of tributaries.

           DMP11-AB*     CCITT V.35 synchronous communication in-
                         terface. Maximum data rate 56 kilobits
                         /second; can be used as multipoint control
                         or tributary station; half or full duplex;
                         configuration limitations based on number
                         of tributaries.

                                      14

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           DMP11-AC*     Local synchronous communication interface
                         with integral modem (switch selectable
                         speeds: 56, 250, 500, or 1,000 kilobits
                         /second. Maximum data rate 500 kilobits
                         /second FDX or 1,000 kilobits/second HDX;
                         can be used as multipoint control or trib-
                         utary station; configuration limitations
                         based on number of tributaries.)

           DMP11-AE*     RS-422-A remote synchronous communication
                         interface. The maximum data rate is 1,000
                         kilobits/second; can be used as multipoint
                         control or tributary station; half or full
                         duplex; configuration limitations based on
                         number of tributaries.

           DMF32-LP      Synchronous point-to-point or multipoint
                         (tributary only) line support for RS-232-C
                         or RS-423-A interface up to 19.2 kilobits
                         /second, half or full duplex. Asynchronous
                         point-to-point only line support for RS-
                         232-C or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6
                         kilobits/second, half or full duplex.
                         Supported on DWBUA Adaptors.

           DSB32         Synchronous, 2-line, half or full duplex
                         point-to-point VAXBI communication in-
                         terface supporting DDCMP (1 or 2 lines
                         up to 64 kilobits/second) with full modem
                         control.










                                      15

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           DMB32         VAX BI controller interface: T1012/H3033
                         half or full duplex synchronous point-
                         to-point only ports are compliant with
                         RS232-C, RS422A/RS449, V.11, X.27, and
                         V.35 and are compatible with RS423A/RS440,
                         V.28/V.24, V.10, and X.26. T1012/H3033
                         asynchronous point-to-point only ports are
                         compliant with EIA RS232-C and compati-
                         ble with V.28/V.24. T1012 also compliant
                         with RS423-A, V.10, and X.26, but H3033
                         distribution panel is not because of pin
                         limitation on the 25 pin D-type connector.

           DHB32         Asynchronous 16 line terminal multiplexer
                         support for EIA RS-232-C or RS-423-A for
                         BI-based system terminal connections. A
                         maximum line speed of up to 19.2 kilobits
                         /second with limited or no modem control
                         for speeds above 9.6 kilobits/second and
                         for the RS-423-A interface is supported.

           DHU11         Asynchronous 16 line RS-232-C controller
                         interface, speed up to 9.6 kilobits/second,
                         full modem control.

           DZ11          Asynchronous 16 line support for EIA RS-
                         232-C or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6
                         kilobits/second, partial modem control.

           DZ32          Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-
                         C or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits
                         /second, partial modem control.

           DMZ32         Asynchronous 24 line support for EIA RS-
                         232-C or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6
                         kilobits/second. Modem support dependent on
                         configuration.



                                      16

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           CI750-AA,     Interconnect for VAX-11/750 systems within
           -AB           a maximum distance of 90 meters. The effec-
                         tive maximum data rate of the CI750 using
                         DECnet-VAX is limited to 1,000 kilobits
                         /second between any pair of nodes.

           CI780-AA,     Interconnect for VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780,
           -AB           VAX-11/782, VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and VAX
                         8650 systems within a maximum distance of
                         90 meters. The effective maximum data rate
                         of the CI780 using DECnet-VAX is limited to
                         1,000 kilobits/second between any pair of
                         nodes.

           CIBCA         CI to BI interface Adaptor. The CIBCA-A
                         ships on 82x0, 83x0, 85x0, 8700, 88x0, and
                         62x0 and is usable on those systems plus
                         the 63x0 series. The CIBCA-B ships on the
                         8700, 88x0, 62x0, and 63x0, and is usable
                         on those systems plus 82x0, 83x0.

           CIBCI         CI to BI interface Adaptor. The CIBCI ships
                         on 82x0, 83x0, 85x0, 87x0, and 8800, and is
                         usable on all the above plus the 8810 and
                         8820N.

           CISCE         CI Star Coupler Expander; allows for 16
                         more systems to be attached to the CI bus.

           MicroVAX and VAXstation system configurations require one
           of the following communication devices:

           Note: For VAXstation 2000 systems, only one on-board asyn-
           chronous data/modem RS-232C serial line is supported up to
           9,600 baud.

           For MicroVAX 2000 systems, up to 4 asynchronous data/modem
           RS-232C serial lines are supported up to 9,600 baud. The asyn-
           chronous ports on the MicroVAX 3100 and VAXstation 3100 are
           supported up to 9.6 kilobits/second with full modem control.

                                      17

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           DEQNA*     Ethernet Controller Interface - Minimum revi-
                      sion level required is K3.

           DELQA      ETHERNET Controller Interface - Replacement
                      for DEQNA. Minimum revision level required is
                      C3. DELQA high performance ROM option (DEQTA)
                      is also supported.

           DESVA      Ethernet controller interface for VAXstation
                      2000 and MicroVAX 2000 Systems.

           DESQA      Ethernet Controller Interface for MicroVAX
                      3300/3400/3500/3600/3800/3900 series,
                      VAXserver 3300/3400/3500/3600 series, and
                      VAXstation 3300/3400/3500 series systems.
                      High performance option (similar to DELQA ROM
                      option) is supported.

           DEQRA      The DEC TRNcontroller 100, a 4/16 Mbps se-
                      lectable Q-bus controller, enables MicroVAX
                      and VAX (Q-bus) systems to connect to an 802.5
                      /Token Ring LAN. A DEC Token Ring Network De-
                      vice Driver for VMS currently ships with the
                      device and supports DECnet-VAX Phase IV.

           DSV11      Synchronous, 2-line, half or full duplex
                      point-to-point communication interface sup-
                      porting DDCMP (1 or 2 lines up to 64 kilobits
                      /second, or 1 line up to 256 kilobits/second).

           DIV32      Synchronous, full duplex point-to-point ISDN
                      Basic Rate Access (2B+D) communication inter-
                      face supporting DDCMP (1 or 2 'lines,' i.e.,
                      ISDN B-Channels at 64 kilobits/second multi-
                      plexed over the ISDN BRA interface). The 16
                      kilobits/second ISDN D-Channel also supported
                      by the DIV32 is reserved for Digital use.



                                      18

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           DSF32      DEC WANcontrollor 620 - Two line synchronous
                      communications controller designed specifi-
                      cally for the VAXft 3000 processors supporting
                      DDCMP. DDCMP is supported at speeds up to
                      64 kilobits/second per line for a two-line
                      operation.

           DMV11-AA   Point-to-point or multipoint (control or trib-
                      utary station) synchronous line support for
                      EIA RS-232-C up to 19.2 kilobits/second or RS-
                      423-A (up to 56 kilobits/second) synchronous
                      communication interface; half or full duplex;
                      multipoint configuration limitations based on
                      number of tributaries.

           DMV11-AF   Point-to-point or Multipoint (control or
                      tributary station) synchronous line support
                      for RS-423-A/449 interface up to 56 kilobits
                      /second; half or full duplex; multipoint
                      configuration limitations based on number
                      of tributaries.

           DMV11-AC   Point-to-point or Multipoint (control or
                      tributary station) synchronous line support
                      used with integral modem for local connection
                      up to 56 kilobits/second; half or full duplex;
                      multipoint configuration limitations based on
                      number of tributaries.

           DMV11-AB   Remote point-to-point or multipoint (control
                      or tributary station) CCITT V.35 synchronous
                      line support up to 56 kilobits/second; half
                      or full duplex; multipoint configuration
                      limitations based on number of tributaries.






                                      19

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           DSH32      DEC TERMINAL/WAN CONTROLLER 581 - Combines
                      DST32 and DHT32 functionality. Asynchronous 8
                      line EIA RS-232-C or RS-422/3-A interface up
                      to 9.6 kilobits/second, no modem control;
                      1 line synch non-DMA DDCMP support up to
                      9.6 kilobits per second, DEC and Bell 200
                      modem compatible for bit- and byte-oriented
                      protocols. Expansion Adaptor required for
                      MicroVAX 2000 systems. Concurrent use with
                      DHT32 or DST32 is not supported.

           DHV11      Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-
                      C or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits
                      /second, full modem control.

           DHQ11      Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-
                      C or RS-423-A interface up to 19.2 kilobits
                      /second, with limited or no modem control for
                      speeds above 9.6 kilobits/second and for the
                      RS-423-A interface.

           DHT32      Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-423-A
                      interface up to 9.6 kilobits/second, no modem
                      control. Concurrent use with DST32 is not
                      supported.

           DST32      Synchronous single line support for DDCMP
                      up to 9.6 kilobits/second, full duplex for
                      MicroVAX 2000 systems. Concurrent use with
                      DHT32 is not supported. The DST32 is not
                      supported on the VAXstation 2000.

           CXY08      Asynchronous 8 line support for EIA RS-232-C
                      interface up to 19.2 kilobits/second, full
                      modem control, for VAX 3000 series systems.

           DZQ11      Asynchronous 4 line support for EIA RS-232-
                      C or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits
                      /second, partial modem control.

                                      20

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           DZV11      Asynchronous 4 line support for EIA RS-232-
                      C or RS-423-A interface up to 9.6 kilobits
                      /second, partial modem control.

           Note: The following RS-422/423 signals are not supported by
           the DECnet-VAX or VMS software:

              NS - New Signal
              SR - Signaling Rate Selector
              LL - Local Loopback
              RL - Remote Loopback
              SS - Select Standby

           CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

           DECnet-VAX is fully supported when installed on any valid
           and licensed VAXcluster* configuration without restrictions.
           The HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS sections of the DECnet-VAX Soft-
           ware Product Description (SPD 25.03.xx) and the VMS Oper-
           ating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx),
           detail any special hardware required or not supported by this
           product.

           VAXcluster software provides a distributed computing envi-
           ronment across a highly integrated set of VAX and/or MicroVAX
           systems that operate as a single environment. VAXcluster mem-
           bers can share many resources such as, disk and tape stor-
           age, CPU resources, and system management operations. Within
           this highly integrated environment, systems retain their in-
           dependence because they use local, memory-resident copies
           of VMS. Thus, members can boot and fail independently while
           benefiting from common resources.

           *  VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAX-
              cluster Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and in-
              clude CI, Ethernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.




                                      21

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

           The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future
           version of this product may be different from the require-
           ments for the current version.

           OPTIONAL HARDWARE

           Communication devices may be added from the device class list
           up to, but not to exceed, the maximum defined by the DECnet-VAX
           SPD Load Unit Tables or the limits imposed by a bounded CPU
           system as mentioned in the VMS Operating System SPD (25.01.xx).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS


           o  VMS Operating System V5.5
              Only the Base VMS Kit component is required.

           OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

           o  VAX Packetnet System Interface (P.S.I.) V4.2

           o  VAX Packetnet System Interface Access V4.2

           o  VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers V1.1 Kit is required
              for any synchronous device operation.

           o  DEC Token Ring Network Device Driver for VMS V1.0 kit is
              required for use of the DEC TRNcontroller 100.

           The TCP/IP Services for VMS Software can be installed to pro-
           vide a TCP/IP environment on a VMS system. TCP/IP Services
           for VMS includes capabilities such as file transfer (FTP),
           TELNET (X.25), Virtual Terminal support, and more. By pur-
           chasing and installing TCP/IP Services for VMS, the TCP trans-
           port can be used without a PAK under a DECwindows environ-
           ment. To use the FTP and TELNET applications, the TCP/IP Ser-
           vices for VMS PAK must be installed in the License Manage-


                                      22

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           ment Facility (LMF). Refer to the TCP/IP Services for VMS
           Software Product Description (SPD 25.A4.xx) for more infor-
           mation.

           VMS Tailoring

           For VMS V5.x systems, the following VMS class is required
           for full functionality of this system integrated product:

           o  VMS Required Saveset

           For more information on VMS classes and tailoring, refer to
           the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
           25.01.xx).

           INSTALLATION

           Only experienced customers should attempt installation of
           this product. Digital recommends that all other customers
           purchase Digital's Installation Services. These services pro-
           vide for installation of the software product by an expe-
           rienced Digital Software Specialist.

           Customer Responsibilities

           Before Digital can install the software, the customer must:

           o  Ensure that system meets the minimum hardware and soft-
              ware requirements (as specified in the relevant SPDs).

           o  Prior to installing Digital hardware or software, obtain,
              install, and demonstrate as operational any modems and
              other necessary customer equipment or facilities to which
              Digital's communication hardware or software will con-
              nect.

           o  Designate one adjacent node to verify installation/connectivity.




                                      23

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           o  Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mu-
              tually agreed upon by Digital and the customer, all hard-
              ware communication facilities and terminals that are to
              be used during installation.

           Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities
           will be charged at the then prevailing rate for time and ma-
           terials.

           Installation for DECnet-VAX will consist of the following:

           o  Verification that all components of DECnet-VAX have been
              received.

           o  Verification that the necessary versions of the VMS soft-
              ware and documentation are available.

           o  Verification of the appropriate SYSGEN parameters.

              Note: Should a software specialist be required to mod-
              ify the previously installed operating system parameters,
              a time and materials charge will apply.

           o  Create any necessary DECnet-VAX accounts and directories.

           o  Enable software via License Product Authorization Key (PAK)
              registration.

           o  Define and create a local node DECnet database.

           o  Modify the system's startup command procedure to include
              startup of the DECnet-VAX network.

           o  Verify the proper installation of DECnet-VAX by running
              a series of tests to show connectivity to a designated
              node.

           Connectivity to all other nodes within the network is the
           responsibility of the customer. Digital recommends the use
           of the NCP facility to help verify connectivity.

                                      24

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           DECnet-VAX software is shipped on the VMS Kit for all pro-
           cessors including MicroVAX-based processors.

           This software product supports the VMS License Management
           Facility and will be enabled by a License Product Authoriza-
           tion Key (PAK), which is included as part of the purchase
           of a Single-Use License. License units for this product are
           allocated on a per-CPU basis and not dependent on CPU Ca-
           pacity or User/Activity.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           DECnet-VAX licenses also include the right to use DECnet-VAX
           Extensions. DECnet-VAX Extensions kit gives the user the op-
           portunity to use the OSI products available for use with DECnet-VAX.
           DECnet-VAX Extensions kit has separate documentation and me-
           dia kits. Refer to the Software Product Description (SPD 29.03.xx)
           for further information.

           A separate license PAK is needed for each CPU on which the
           software product will be used (except as otherwise speci-
           fied by Digital). Materials and Service Options are then se-
           lected to use the product more effectively. THE LICENSE OP-
           TIONS ARE DESCRIBED BELOW. IF YOU ARE NOT FAMILIAR WITH THE
           SERVICE OPTIONS, YOU MAY OBTAIN THE APPROPRIATE SOFTWARE PROD-
           UCT SERVICE DESCRIPTION(S) FROM YOUR LOCAL DIGITAL OFFICE.

           Base License Option Numbers for DECnet-VAX are:

           End Node     QL-D04A*-AA

           Full         QL-D05A*-AA
           Function



                                      25

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           Migration    QL-D09A*-AA
           Option

           *  Denotes processor variant. Migration indicates an upgrade
              from End Node (EN) to Full Function (FF). Contact your
              local Digital Sales Office for Rental License Option avail-
              ability.

           LICENSE OPTIONS

           Single-Use License Option

           The Single-Use License provides the right to use the soft-
           ware product on a single CPU. Single-Use licensed software
           is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital Equip-
           ment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.

           For the first installation of this software product the user
           must purchase, as a minimum:

           o  Single-Use License Option, and

           o  One VMS Extended Documentation Option
              (Includes full DECnet-VAX Documentation)

           The license gives users the right to use the software on a
           single CPU and includes the delivery of a License Product
           Authorization Key (PAK) to enable the DECnet-VAX software.
           The VMS Distribution and Extended Documentation Options pro-
           vide the machine-readable software and related documenta-
           tion.

           To use this software product on additional CPUs, users must
           purchase a Single-Use License Option for each CPU.

           The one-time right to copy the software is no longer included
           with the Single-Use License Option. For additional CPUs, since
           DECnet-VAX software is included on the VMS Distribution me-
           dia, users only need the one-time right-to-copy license for

                                      26

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           VMS. The VMS Extended or the VMS Base Documentation Options
           are not required, but the VMS Base Documentation is recom-
           mended for additional CPUs. Note that the VMS Base Documen-
           tation does not include the full set of DECnet-VAX documen-
           tation but is sufficient for those users who need to get started
           using the basic capabilities of DECnet-VAX.

           Migration Option - DECnet-VAX End Node to Full Function

           Current licensed users of DECnet-VAX End Node software are
           eligible for the Migration Option to upgrade a system from
           End Node capability to Full Function capability. This is a
           Single-Use License offered at a reduced price and provides
           all of the License rights described above under a full func-
           tion license.

           For each CPU running DECnet-VAX End Node that is to be up-
           graded to Full Function, the user must purchase, as a min-
           imum:

           o  Migration Option Single-Use License

           Documentation Option

           Users will receive DECnet-VAX documentation as part of ei-
           ther the VMS Extended or VMS Base Documentation Options. Note
           that the VMS Extended Set contains the full DECnet-VAX Net-
           working Documentation while the Base set contains a subset
           of this information for users who need only to get started
           using DECnet-VAX. Users do not need to order any license op-
           tion to obtain documentation; users need only order those
           manuals or sets that are appropriate for their needs.

           It is suggested that the VMS Extended Documentation Option
           be purchased as system management becomes more important;
           however, only the VMS Base Documentation Option is needed
           to use the DECnet-VAX software to get started. When revised
           versions of this software product become available, users



                                      27

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           may obtain additional copies of the documentation by pur-
           chasing either VMS option again or by purchasing individ-
           ual manuals. For the user's convenience, a separate DECnet-VAX
           Documentation-only Kit is available (QA-001AN-GZ).


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This System Integrated Product (SIP) supports the VMS Li-
           cense Management Facility.

           License units for this product are allocated on a per-CPU
           basis and are not dependent on CPU Capacity or User/Activity.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available. For more infor-
           mation, contact your local Digital office.

           Note: If a device is not listed, that device is not supported
           by DECnet-VAX.

           Hardware Configurations:



                                      28

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           The following tables describe the physical hardware config-
           urations supported by DECnet-VAX in terms of CPU type and
           communication interface. The numbers given in the tables are
           load units.

           Load units are incurred when a device is in active opera-
           tion at the indicated speed. An idle device incurs no load.
           However, in general, systems should be configured so they
           can sustain peak load rates.

           Configuration limits such as power supply, air condition-
           ing, and backplane space requirements are not considered in
           the following tables. Please verify system configurations
           with your Digital representative. In addition, please note
           that each device requires its own memory space for buffer-
           ing and link control. Particular consideration should be taken
           when configuring eight or more DECnet-VAX links on a sin-
           gle CPU; if in doubt, please contact your Digital represen-
           tative.

           Instructions for using the following tables:

           Each communications device belongs to one of the following
           three classes:

           Class   -   DMA devices with firmware datalink protocol
           I

           Class   -   DMA devices with datalink protocol in han-
           II          dling software

           Class   -   Low end non-DMA devices with software-
           III         handling datalink protocol and primarily
                       per-character interrupts

           Listed below are the communications devices and the class
           in which each belongs.

           Each device class and line speed combination is associated
           with the following load units:

                   Load Units by Line Speed and Device Class

                                      29

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           _________________________________________________________
                                  Line Speed (kilobits/second)

           __________________9.6_19.2_56__>56_______________________

           Class I           8   16   45  100

           Class II          10  20   52  115

           Class III         13  26   n   n/a
           ___________________________/a____________________________

           Note: For speeds under 9.6 kilobits/second (9,600 baud), load
           units are proportional. Thus a 2,400 baud Class III (e.g.,
           a DZV11) line would represent about 3 units.

           Each CPU can support a given number of load units. In gen-
           eral, the faster the CPU the greater the number of load units
           it can support. The load units that can be supported by each
           CPU are:

                            Load Units by CPU Type

           _________________________________________________________
                                        Main
           CPU______________Load_Units__BUS_Type____________________

           VAX 9xxx-xxx     5400        XMI/BI

           VAX 8810,20,30,401500        XMI/BI

           VAX 8800/VAX     1350        BI
           8700

           VAX 6000-4xx     1300        XMI/BI

           VAX 8650         1200        BI/UNIBUS

           VAX 8550         1200        BI

           VAX 6000-3xx     945         XMI/BI
                            (formerly
                            63xx)

           VAX 8530         940         BI

                                      30

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           _________________________________________________________
                                        Main
           CPU______________Load_Units__BUS_Type____________________

           MicroVAX 3800    865         Q-bus
           /3900

           VAX 8600         790         BI

           VAX 8500         790         BI

           VAX 6000-2xx     655         XMI/BI
                            (formerly
                            62xx)

           VAX 4xxx         640         Native/Q-bus

           MicroVAX 3xxx,   640         Q-bus
           VAXstation
           3xxx

           VAX FT3xxx       560         Q-bus

           VAX-11/785       360         UNIBUS

           MicroVAX II,     280         Q-bus
           VAXstation II
           VAX-11/782       2402        UNIBUS

           VAX-11/780       240         UNIBUS

           VAXstation       240         Q-bus
           8000

           VAX 8250,        240         BI
           VAX 8350

           VAX 8200,        200         BI
           VAX 8300

           VAX-11/750       170         UNIBUS
           MicroVAX 2000/   1701        Q-bus/Native

           VAXstation
           2000
           MicroVAX I,      1002        Q-bus

           VAXstation I

                                      31

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           _________________________________________________________
                                        Main
           CPU______________Load_Units__BUS_Type____________________

           VAX-11/725,      1002        UNIBUS

           VAX-11/730_______________________________________________

           1   For VAXstation 2000 systems, only one asynchronous

               data/modem RS-232C serial line is supported up to
               9,600 baud. For MicroVAX 2000 systems, up to 4
               asynchronous data/modem RS-232C serial lines are
               supported up to 9,600 baud.
           2   The following CPUs are no longer offered:

               VAX: VAX-11/725, VAX-11/730, VAX-11/782
               MicroVAX: MicroVAX I, MicroVAX 3300 packaged
                   systems and all MicroVAX 3400, MicroVAX 3800,
                   MicroVAX 3900 systems
               VAXstation: VAXstation I and packaged
                   VAXstation 3300 systems

           The maximum system configuration, with a mix of device types,
           is computed by adding the load costs (in load units) for each
           device up to the limit for a given processor type. For gen-
           eral information on possible supported configurations, see
           the configuration charts in the VMS Operating System Soft-
           ware Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx).

           Example:

           For a VAX-11/750 used to route messages in a DECnet network:

           Assume that the system uses a DMR11 (Class I device) at 500
           kilobits/second, a DMR11 (Class I device) at 19.2 kilobits
           /second and the synchronous line of a DMF32 (Class I device)
           at 19.2 kilobits/second. When the network is heavily used,



                                      32

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           the processor loading totals 136 load units. Adding a de-
           vice with a load of greater than 34 load units (e.g., an-
           other DMR11 at 56 kilobits/second) would mean that the VAX-11
           /750 may not be able to sustain heavy demand.

                                Device Classes

           _________________________________________________________
           Device_Type_________________Class________________________

           DELUA1                      I

           DEUNA1                      I

           DEBNA1                      I

           DEBNI1                      I

           DEMNA1                      I

           DEMFA1                      I

           DHU112                      II

           DMC11                       I

           DMR11                       I

           DMP11                       I
           _________________________________________________________
           Device_Type_________________Class________________________

           DMF32 (synch)               II
           DMF322 (asynch)             II

           DSB32                       II

           DMB32 (synch)               II
           DMB322 (asynch)             II

           DSV11                       II

           DIV32                       II

           DSF32                       II
           DMV113                      I

           DSH32 (synch)               II

                                      33

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           _________________________________________________________
           Device_Type_________________Class________________________

           DSH322 (asynch)             II

           DZ112                       III

           DZ322                       III

           DMZ322                      III

           CXY08                       II
           CI7804                      I

           CI7504                      I

           CIBCA                       I
           DEQNA1                      I

           DELQA1                      I

           DESQA1                      I

           DESVA1                      I

           DEQRA1                      I

           DHV112                      II

           DHQ112                      II

           DHT322                      II

           DST322                      II

           DHB32                       II
           DZV112                      III

           DZQ112                      III
           _________________________________________________________

           1   When two or more Ethernet, FDDI, or 802.5/Token Ring

               controllers are used on a single CPU, each controller
               must be connected to a different Ethernet, FDDI,
               or 802.5/Token Ring cable. These cables must not be
               joined by a bridge or a repeater, though they may be
               joined by another DECnet router.
           2   Load costs are for each line of a device at 9,600

               baud. Higher data rates are not supported.

                                      34

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5


           3   Load costs are for each line at 56 kilobits/second.

               Higher data rates are not supported.
           4   DECnet-VAX supports up to 16 VAX systems connected

               to one SC008 star coupler via CI780/750 interfaces.
               The effective maximum data rate through the CI780/750
               using DECnet-VAX is limited to 1,000 kilobits/second
               at each node.

           Support for Multiple Ethernet Adaptors on Different Bus Types

           VMS support for multiple Digital-supplied Ethernet Adaptors
           on different bus types allows for:

           1.  The added capability of Digital's existing multi-rail
               support

               and

           2.  The additional throughput capability of newer, faster
               devices while maintaining customer investment in
               supported older devices

           The following combinations are possible:

           _________________________________________________________
           Bus_Type_____Adaptor_______CPUs_Affected_________________

           XMI and      DEMFA         VAX 6000-500
           FDDI

           XMI and      DEMNA         VAX 6xxx,
           BI           DEBNA, DEBNI  VAX 88xx
                                      VAX 9xxx,
                                      VAX 8700




                                      35

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           _________________________________________________________
           Bus_Type_____Adaptor_______CPUs_Affected_________________

           Q-bus        DELQA/DEQTA   MicroVAX 3xxx
           and          (DELQA-Plus
           Integrated   or DESQA)
           Ethernet     DESVA
           Controller

           Q-bus        DELQA/DEQTA   VAX 34xx,
           and          (DELQA-Plus   VAX 4xxx
           Integrated   or DESQA)
           Ethernet     SGEC
           Controller_______________________________________________

           The following table indicates supported configurations:

           _________________________________________________________
                        DECnet-VAX

                        Load       Combination
           CPU_Type_____Units______Bus_Support______________________

           VAX 9xxx-    5400       Any combination of
           xxx                     XMI or BI Adaptors
                                   up to a maximum of 6 adaptors

           VAX 6000-    1200       Any combination of
           5xx                     XMI to FDDI Adaptors
                                   up to a maximum of 6 adaptors

           VAX 6000-    1200       Any combination of
           4xx          945        XMI or BI Adaptors
           VAX 6000-    655        up to a maximum of 6 adaptors
           3xx
           VAX 6000-
           2xx




                                      36

 



 Application     Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
                                             DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           _________________________________________________________
                        DECnet-VAX

                        Load       Combination
           CPU_Type_____Units______Bus_Support______________________

           MicroVAX     640        2 Q-bus adaptors maximum
           and                     1 Native adaptor maximum or
           VAXstation              a combination up to
           3xxx                    2 adaptors of Native and Q-bus

           VAX 4xxx     640        2 Q-bus adaptors maximum
           and                     1 Native adaptor maximum or
           VAX 34xx                a combination up to
           ________________________2_adaptors_of_Native_and_Q-bus___

           Restrictions

           Note: If the configuration is not listed here, that config-
           uration is not currently supported by DECnet-VAX.

           1. UNIBUS support does not change. DELUA and DEUNAs are still
              supported at current levels. No combinations beyond ex-
              isting support are supported.

           2. The Q-bus environment is limited to two adaptors on the
              same bus type.

           3. Failover of adaptors is limited to DECnet protocol traf-
              fic ONLY. SCA VAXcluster traffic is not supported on mul-
              tiple adaptors on the same CPU for example.

           4. No more than TWO different bus types with Ethernet Adap-
              tors are supported per any CPU.

           5. Multiples of different adaptors are supported ONLY for
              Digital Ethernet Adaptor hardware.

           6. Should average Ethernet utilization exceed 15 percent on
              average then failover is not guaranteed from a higher per-
              formance device to a lower performance device.

                                      37

 



           Network Application Support 250 for VAXstations, Version 1.0 - Appendix
           DECnet-VAX, Version 5.5

           To achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a Dig-
           ital software specialist must perform a level of applica-
           tion analysis that addresses the factors stated.


           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software is provided by Digital with the
           purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Soft-
           ware Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®   MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpo-
               ration.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DECnet, DELUA, DECnet-DOS,
               DECnet-VAX, DECwindows, MicroVAX, Packetnet, PATH-
               WORKS, PDP-11, Q-bus, Rainbow, RSX-11, TK, ULTRIX,
               UNIBUS, VAX, VAX MACRO, VAXBI, VAXft, VAXcluster,
               VAXmate, VAXstation, VAXserver, VMS, and XMI are
               trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.





















                                      38
