 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Notes, Version 2.3                  SPD 27.06.08

 DESCRIPTION

 VAX Notes is a computer conferencing software product designed to pro-
 vide users with the capability of creating and accessing enterprise-
 wide, on-line conferences or meetings. Computer conferencing is a proven,
 computer supported, electronic messaging technology that lets users
 participate in open discussions with people in different locations and
 at different times. VAX Notes helps save travel time and money because
 participants can join in a discussion from their own desks at a time
 of their own choice.

 VAX Notes can be used for a variety of applications such as an elec-
 tronic bulletin board, collaborative document authoring and review,
 and internal classes or seminars. One major advantage of VAX Notes is
 that the conference maintains a detailed record of the proceedings of
 a discussion. These records can later be searched by a variety of cri-
 teria, such as name of participant, subject, or keyword. VAX Notes elim-
 inates reinvention of the wheel by providing a mechanism for sharing
 expert knowledge across the enterprise. In general, VAX Notes enhances
 the communication flow across the corporate hierarchy.

 VAX Notes is implemented as a client/server application. The VAX Notes
 clients can run in one of two ways. Users can be on either the DECwin-
 dows platform with easy access to functions through direct manipula-
 tion with a mouse in a window, or the character cell terminal using
 a TPU interface. VAX Notes servers run on VMS systems in either a stan-
 dalone or networked environment.




                               DIGITAL                     June 1992

                                                         AE-GH97K-TE

 

 The VAX Notes Full-function option allows the use of all the features
 described below. The VAX Notes Client option allows all of the fea-
 tures described below with the exception of creation of conferences.
 The VAX Notes for TeamLinks option allows VAX Notes server features
 to be accessed by TeamLinks PC Clients.

 Features

 Distributed Access

 VAX Notes has been designed for optimal multi-node access in a DEC-
 net network, using server technology to achieve rapid response - even
 from distant nodes. VAX Notes conferences can exist on any VAX Notes
 server node in a DECnet network and can be accessed from any VAX Notes
 client node in a DECnet network, thus offering true distributed pro-
 cessing capability. Users on remote nodes need not have an account on
 the node where the conference is located in order to participate in
 a discussion. VAX Notes may also be used on any single node VMS con-
 figuration. Conferences may exist on any node where the full-function
 server is installed in either standalone or networked environments.

 Moderator Support

 A moderator is a person responsible for managing a conference. VAX Notes
 allows both public and private conferences. For private conferences,
 the moderator can restrict access to a specific group of participants
 by specifying name and network location. Public conferences have no
 restrictions on who may participate. Moderators may send announcements
 of new conferences to participants, and have the ability to delete notes
 entered by other participants. Moderators may also create special no-
 tices which are displayed for all participants each time the confer-
 ence is accessed.

 Ease of Use

 VAX Notes is designed with the inexperienced user in mind. All func-
 tions can be accessed by easy-to-use commands, supported with on-line,
 context-sensitive help. Documentation is designed to familiarize new
 users with VAX Notes quickly and easily.

                                  2

 

 Choice of Editor Interfaces

 The character-cell interface to VAX Notes provides three separate screen-
 oriented user interfaces for editing, allowing users to specify use
 of EVE (an extensible interface), EDT-style keypad interface, or WPS-
 style GOLD KEY keypad interface on ANSI-compatible terminals.

 A line mode editor also is included in VAX Notes for use on non-ANSI
 terminal devices.

 Users of the DECwindows interface can enter notes which contain graph-
 ics and text by including entire compound documents based on DDIF file
 format.

 Topics and Replies

 The structure of a VAX Notes conference is simple - a topic followed
 by replies to that topic - so there is no difficult hierarchy to nav-
 igate. A conference may have more than 50,000 topics, and each topic
 may have a similar number of replies. Directory listings show all top-
 ics by author, title, date, and the number of replies posted to each
 topic. All notes can be read either sequentially or at random. Also,
 users may read only those notes which they have not yet seen. VAX Notes
 allows the user to search for various topics and replies using the SEARCH,
 DIRECTORY, and KEYWORD commands.

 The DECwindows interface to VAX Notes allows users to open multiple
 read windows per conference, as well as have multiple conferences open
 at one time.

 Notebook

 The Notebook is a user's personal list of conferences of interest. Users
 may easily add or delete conferences from their Notebook. The Note-
 book allows users to define personal names for conferences and, in a
 distributed environment, allows remote conferences to be accessed with-
 out DECnet node specifications. When a conference is accessed, the Note-
 book determines whether or not new notes have been made since the last
 time the user accessed the conference. The Notebook also maintains a

                                  3

 

 profile of user preferences, including personal name, editor choice,
 and default printer specification.

 Markers

 Markers are user-defined names pointing to relevant notes in a con-
 ference. Markers can be used whenever a user needs to have a special
 reminder of things to do, or to recall notes that are frequently ref-
 erenced.

 Keywords

 Keywords allow the user to group notes that are concerned with a par-
 ticular subject or do not have other attributes (such as title, au-
 thor, or time of entry) in common. Keywords are useful for grouping
 notes that may not have the keyword in the note text or title, but that
 do address the subject the keyword represents. Imported Text

 VAX Notes allows notes and replies to be created outside of VAX Notes
 (using any editor which can produce ASCII output files) and then later
 imported to the conference.

 Mail Integration

 VAX Notes uses the VMS mail facility (included in the VMS Operating
 System) to allow users to send notes or messages to other users from
 within VAX Notes.

 LinkWorks

 LinkWorks allows the user to create links between notes in a VAX Notes
 conference as well as links between notes and other applications which
 support LinkWorks, such as the VMS mail facility. LinkWorks is use-
 ful in establishing links between elements in different databases and
 also allows easy navigation along the paths established by the links.
 For more information regarding LinkWorks, please refer to the VMS DECwin-
 dows Motif[R] Software Product Description (SPD 36.09.xx).



                                  4

 

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configuration as specified in the System Sup-
 port Addendum (SSA 27.06.08-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 o  VMS Operating System

 For Workstations Running VWS:

 o  VMS Operating System

 For Workstations Running DECwindows:

 o  VMS Operating System

 o  VMS DECwindows Motif

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.06.08-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software and for
 information regarding components of VMS DECwindows Motif.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 VAX Notes - Full-function

 Software Licenses: QL-960A*-**
 Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-960A*-**

 VAX Notes - Client Only

 Software Licenses: QL-VESA*-**
 Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-VESA*-**

                                  5

 

 VAX Notes for TeamLinks

 Software Licenses: QL-006AA-2B
 Software Media: QA-960AA-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-006A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for VAX Notes Full-function option are allocated on an
 Unlimited System Use and Concurrent Use basis. Each Concurrent Use li-
 cense allows any one individual at a time to use the layered product.

 License units for VAX Notes Client option are allocated on an Unlim-
 ited System Use, Concurrent Use, and Personal Use basis. Each Concur-
 rent Use license allows any one individual at a time to use the lay-
 ered product. Each Personal Use license allows one identified indi-
 vidual to use the layered product.

 License units for VAX Notes for TeamLinks option are allocated on a
 Personal Use basis. Each Personal Use license allows one identified
 TeamLinks node to access VAX Notes server features. A separate VAX Notes
 Full-function license is not required when using this option.





                                  6

 

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 [R]Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software Foundation,
    Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, CI, DDIF, DEC, DECnet, DECspell,
    DECwindows, Digital, EDT, GOLD KEY, LinkWorks, Micro/VAX, Team-
    Links, TK, VAX, VAX Notes, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXs-
    tation, VMS, VT100, and WPS are trademarks of Digital Equipment
    Corporation.















                                  7
