PRODUCT NAME:  VAX TEAMDATA, Version 1.4            SPD 27.02.04


DESCRIPTION

VAX TEAMDATA is an end-user information management product that runs on 
the VMS Operating System.

TEAMDATA provides powerful yet easy-to-use information management 
capabilities to those who need to use data in their work, but who don't 
want to do ``data processing''. TEAMDATA lets users easily store and 
modify data, using a screen-oriented, text-editing style, in a powerful 
relational database management system (VAX Rdb/VMS).

TEAMDATA helps users share data, stored locally and remotely, in a variety 
of storage formats.  TEAMDATA users can access data stored in Rdb/VMS 
databases by TEAMDATA or by other Rdb/VMS applications.  Through optional 
use of VAX DATATRIEVE, TEAMDATA allows (read-only) access to data stored 
in VAX DBMS databases or RMS files which have been defined as DATATRIEVE 
domains. Through optional use of VIDA, TEAMDATA permits (read-only) access 
to data in certain remote IBM mainframe databases. Additionally, through  
optional use of VAX Xway, users can import and export data to and from 
common spreadsheet and data interchange formats.

TEAMDATA allows users to manipulate their personal data, as well as shared 
or remote databases, in simple tables, spreadsheets, reports, and business    
graphs, and to perform complex query and data reduction operations. 
TEAMDATA users can perform their tasks by selecting items from strip 
menus, using a command language, or a combination of the two.

TEAMDATA can be used with ALL-IN-1, as an information management option on 
an ALL-IN-1 menu, or can be installed outside of ALL-IN-1. In addition, 
TEAMDATA provides the capability to run applications developed    using 
VAX RALLY.  TEAMDATA offers a package of tightly integrated functions 
described below.

Features

Tables (Database)

TEAMDATA users can create and maintain data in tables (stored in Rdb/VMS)    
for private or shared use. Using a text processing style that is 
consistent with WPS-PLUS function keys, users can ``edit'' screens of data 
without having to learn a complex data manipulation language. Data can be 
stored, sorted, updated, queried and reported on using menu selections, 
commands, or a combination of the two.  Table features include:

^ Ability to display data in tabular form on the screen

^ Ability to create tables and determine display format for new data
  
^ Editing of data, including easy data entry, update and deletion in word 
  processing style

^ Query, extract and report by menu-driven record selection

^ Transparent fetching of data from local and remote TEAMDATA or other 
  Rdb/VMS databases, VAX DBMS databases or RMS files through VAX 
  DATATRIEVE (read-only), or remote IBM mainframe databases that are 
  accessible through VIDA (read-only)      

^ Simple report generation using data from single or multiple data 
  sources; ability to subset and sort data, establish line and page 
  control breaks, and save/print the results                       

^ Joins between tables, with the ability to store the results in a new 
  table

^ Sorting of data by one or more fields

^ Aggregate calculations, including TOTAL, COUNT, AVERAGE, MAX, MIN on a 
  whole table or by sub-groups                                

^ Computed fields, where a field is calculated in terms of one or more 
  other fields in the same row

Spreadsheets

TEAMDATA provides a basic spreadsheet capability for use in conjunction      
with tables for ad hoc calculations.  TEAMDATA uses compatible menus and    
screen-editing styles for the creation and modification of both 
spreadsheets and tables.  Spreadsheet features include:

^ Screen editing of spreadsheet data and formulas

^ Size of spreadsheet: up to 256 columns x 65,000 rows

^ Temporary or permanent creation of new cells/rows/columns after initial 
  spreadsheet creation

^ Automatic recalculation of formulas                                
 
^ Column widths and cell/row/column formats individually adjustable

^ Insert, replicate (copy), move, and delete rows and columns

^ Financial functions such as present value, future value, net present 
  value, depreciated value

^ Mathematical functions such as LOGN, SQRT, ABS, FACTORIAL

^ Statistical functions such as sum, average, minimum, maximum, variance, 
  standard deviation, and count 
  
^ Ability to print spreadsheet formulas or data values

^ Conditional expressions (IF/THEN), with nesting and Boolean comparisons

^ ERROR capability:  IF cell x ``error'' THEN substitute cell Y (or value 
  Y) ELSE cell (or value) Z

Business Graphics

Users can create bar, multi-bar, stacked bar, line, multi-line, pie or 
scatter graphs of data from within tables or spreadsheets. Graphs can be 
displayed, printed (black and white or color), or saved. Graphs can also 
be saved and then loaded into VAX DECgraph for modification.

Folders (Directory)

Users can organize tables, spreadsheets, and applications in folders.  
Folders can be nested hierarchically.

Folders contain a directory of the user's own private information or can 
include public information for team or work group use.

Integration with DECdecision

TEAMDATA users can share Public Folder databases with DECdecision users. 
Tables in databases created by TEAMDATA or the DECdecision Access 
component can also be accessed interchangeably by either product.

Integration with ALL-IN-1

TEAMDATA provides integration with ALL-IN-1 in the following areas:          

^ Function keys consistent with ALL-IN-1 and WPS-PLUS
 
^ Support of ALL-IN-1 interrupt facilities                            
 
^ Ability to paste TEAMDATA reports and graphs (as text) into      
  ALL-IN-1 documents or electronic mail messages (via the ALL-IN-1 
  scratch pad)

TEAMDATA can be run from an ALL-IN-1 menu, but need not be.

VAX RALLY Applications

TEAMDATA users can run VAX RALLY-generated applications. Application 
developers can create custom applications that include forms, reports, 
menus, HELP and complex logic. These applications can then be included on 
a TEAMDATA directory and run by the end-user. Refer to VAX RALLY (SPD 
27.03.xx) for more information.  VAX Rally Run-Time system is required in 
order to run VAX Rally applications from TEAMDATA.

Ease-of-use Features

^ Comprehensive, context-sensitive on-line HELP

^ Integrated on-line training lets users learn key concepts and functions 
  while actually working with the TEAMDATA software

^ Ability to save sequences of commands and keystrokes in named     
  procedures, modifiable by Digital text editor of choice, with prompting 
  for user input at run-time, to automate repetitive tasks

^ Ability to modify and save user defaults 

^ Ability to have multiple active tasks (e.g., tables,              
  spreadsheets, RALLY applications) and to toggle between them.     

Access to Existing Data and Applications 

TEAMDATA allows users to access data in a variety of locations: in tables 
and spreadsheets that other TEAMDATA users have created, in Rdb/VMS 
databases, in either VAX DBMS databases or RMS files that have been 
defined as VAX DATATRIEVE domains (read-only), and in IBM mainframe 
databases that  are accessible through VIDA (read-only).  Refer to VIDA 
with IDMS/R (SPD 27.25.xx) and VIDA with DB2 (SPD 25.E7.xx) for further 
information.

Users can also issue DCL commands and run programs or DCL command 
procedures from within TEAMDATA.

As an additional option, TEAMDATA provides an interface to the VAX Xway 
format conversion utility allowing for import and export of data and, 
where possible, formulas to and from common spreadsheet and data 
interchange formats, such as DIF, SYLK, WKS or DECalc storage dump.  
Refer to VAX Xway (SPD 27.36.xx) for further information.

Other System-wide Features

^ Cut and paste all or part of a table to a spreadsheet, a spreadsheet to 
  a table, a table to a table, and a spreadsheet to a spreadsheet

^ Date arithmetic

^ User-defined formatting of data 

^ Invokable from any menu system capable of running a standard VMS image 
  and relinquishing control of the screen to that image

Documentation 

One volume, consisting of:

^ Introduction to VAX TEAMDATA

^ Using VAX TEAMDATA

^ VAX TEAMDATA Command Summary

^ Installation Guide

^ Release Notes                      

^ Quick Reference Guide (pocket size)

Additionally, VAX TEAMDATA includes complete online HELP for each command 
and option, as well as online training for basic tasks.

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configuration as specified in the 
VMS System Support Addendum (SSA 27.02.04-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

VMS Operating System 

VMS Workstation Software

VAX Rdb/VMS (Run-Time, Development, or Interactive Option)

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.02.04-x) for 
    availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

ORDERING INFORMATION 

Software Licenses: QL-741A*-**
Software Media: QA-741A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-741AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-741A*-**

* Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available 
  licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING 

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital 
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more 
information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your 
local Digital office.

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY 

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity or 
User/Activity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the 
License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System 
documentation set.

For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, 
contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital.  For more 
information contact your local Digital office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the 
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty 
Addendum of this SPD. 

IDMS is a trademark of Cullinet Software, Inc.
IBM is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation.

The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation.
    
VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver and ALL-IN-1 are trademarks of Digital Equipment 
Corporation.

May 1990
AE-FY74E-TE

