 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECplan for VMS[*], Version 1.2         SPD 33.09.02

 DESCRIPTION

 DECplan is an integrated time and project management tool designed to
 help users plan, track, schedule, and report on projects and meetings.
 DECplan is a client/server, DECwindows-based tool that provides a server
 and two clients, the DECplan client and the DECplan Time Manager client.
 DECplan Time Manager is a subset of the DECplan client. (See SPD 31.27.xx
 for details on the DECplan Time Manager client for VMS.) The DECplan
 server manages a single DECplan database of information delineated by
 a series of planners: project, personal, equipment, and locations. Mul-
 tiple DECplan or DECplan Time Manager clients can connect to a sin-
 gle server. These clients, when connected to the DECplan server, al-
 low users to share project information stored in a common database.

 Features

 Distributed and Interoperable Clients and Servers

 o  DECplan clients and servers of the same version can run and are able
    to interoperate with one another on a single hardware system or mul-
    tiple systems running the VMS Operating System.

 Planners

 o  DECplan stores all information about a project, a person, a piece
    of equipment, or a location resource in a single place called a plan-
    ner. DECplan supports single or multiple projects. Users can cre-
    ate planners for each project and set up dependencies on other plan-
    ners. Given the right security level, users can access and review

 ____________________

 The   terms VMS and OpenVMS refer to the OpenVMS Operating System.

                               DIGITAL                  October 1992

                                                         AE-PJ34D-TE

 

    multiple planners of various types in a variety of DECplan views
    located on the user's local DECplan server. Cross-functional sub-
    projects can be linked to facilitate enterprisewide rollups of cost,
    effort, and dates.

 o  DECplan allows views, reports, and scheduling of multiple planners
    within one server. Cross-project dependencies and rollup activi-
    ties can be performed across multiple servers.

 Views

 o  DECplan allows users to enter and display planner data in many user-
    selectable views:

    -  The Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a graphical, hierarchi-
       cal tree structure that shows the organization of tasks in the
       project.

    -  The Precedence Network (PN) allows users to assign the order in
       which tasks and milestones are to be achieved. The PN diagram-
       ming method supports Finish to Finish, Start to Start, Finish
       to Start, Start to Finish, with lag and overlap. It shows crit-
       ical path, and, on a color monitor, it can highlight the crit-
       ical path in user-defined colors. Supernode structures allow users
       to collapse or expand user-defined collections of tasks and mile-
       stones.

    -  Both the WBS and PN views have a navigation window that allows
       users to zoom in and zoom out to traverse large project diagrams
       that normally do not fit on one screen. The navigation window
       is also used to scale the views, which can then be used as the
       default printer output size.

    -  A table view is a spreadsheet-like view of data in a planner.
       Table views can be used to view information on resources, mile-
       stones, tasks, meetings, time charges, and other objects in a
       planner. DECplan provides default table views as well as allows
       users the capability to modify and save custom table views.

    -  The Task Table is one type of table view that shows a hierar-
       chical breakdown of the work (tasks) in spreadsheet form.

                                  2

 

    -  Customized views, based on the standard views, can be created
       and saved. In addition, users can select any view to appear as
       a default view specific to a planner.

 o  DECplan has an integrated Annotation Editor that allows end users
    to customize the data presented for each task or milestone node in
    the WBS and PN graphical views. Shading characteristics, the fields
    to display in or around the node, and the size of the node can all
    be defined by the user.

 Scheduling

 o  DECplan provides critical path scheduling, constrained resources
    scheduling, and shared resources across multiple projects; uses ac-
    tuals in calculations; and allows the user to enter specific con-
    straints in running schedules.

 o  The user can ask the scheduler to use project and task priority in
    computing schedules. Once tasks have been assigned and the sched-
    uler has computed dates, the user can see scheduled tasks in the
    day view.

 o  Users can modify or create additional scheduling options and se-
    lectively key on specific fields to be used in the scheduling cal-
    culation.

 o  DECplan scheduling also allows replanning/rescheduling for refine-
    ments and updates.

 Charts

 o  DECplan provides standard and customizable charts.

    -  The Gantt chart is a graphic display of task duration and mile-
       stone occurrence in relation to time. Information in the Gantt
       chart can be directly manipulated, and color may be used on ap-
       propriate monitors. Users can customize the data, select the time
       scale and resources, and select the symbology when displaying
       on the screen and in report output. The Gantt chart can be used
       for one project or a series of multiple projects in the same view.

                                  3

 

    -  DECplan also provides Earned Value Charts, Effort Rate Charts,
       Resource Loading Charts, Cost Performance Charts, and Cost Vari-
       ance Charts. Users may define what style of chart to present,
       which project planners to use, what colors to use, timescale,
       and dates to use in the charts.

 Cost Management

 o  Forecast and actual cost information can be displayed in Cost Charts.
    In addition, a series of Earned Value Charts can display ACWP, BCWS,
    BCWP, schedule and cost variances, and estimated time to complete.

 o  DECplan supports a variety of Earned Value progress crediting meth-
    ods: full on start, full on finish, half-and-half, level of effort,
    and percentage variances.

 o  DECplan's cost management follows the DoD/DoE CPR and CSSR report
    structure (STD 7000.10). In addition to the graphical Earned Value
    Charts, a variety of tabular reports show cost information and al-
    low users the flexibility of creating customized reports.

 Reports

 o  DECplan provides a user-defined report creation and layout tool,
    the Report Layout Editor (RLE). The RLE is used to define reports
    on any object stored in the database. Users select items from a class
    of objects to place in either the report title page, detail pages,
    or trailer pages to build customized reports. The RLE provides subto-
    taling of columns, control breaks, and other editing features such
    as bolding, centering, underlining, and aligning fields using a grid.
    The user decides which project(s) data to include and prints the
    report.

 o  DECplan also provides approximately 30 standard reports covering
    all phases of the project management life cycle (planning, control,
    costs, replanning). Each of the standard reports can be used to build
    customized reports.

 Plotter Support

                                  4

 

 DECplan offers plotter support for HP-GL[R]-format plotters for graph-
 ical and tabular output.

 Keywords, Sort, Filters

 o  DECplan keywords provide users with a user-defined alphanumeric string
    to associate with tasks or other objects in the database. Keywords
    can be used for a sort or filtering mechanism in views and reports.

 o  The sort feature is consistent across the tabular views and pro-
    vides ascending or descending sorts, and sorts in groupings.

 o  Filtering allows users to selectively pull any data from the database
    for use in reports, charts, and task table views.

 o  The user can also build a selection expression filter to access and
    display data stored in one or more project planners.

 Export/Import Feature

 o  DECplan allows users to import data using the DTIF CDA interchange
    format. Several CDA Extended converters exist to allow data trans-
    formation from a non-DTIF format to DTIF, which can then be imported
    into the DECplan database.

 o  Users can also export an entire DECplan planner in DTIF format to
    other applications that accept DTIF, like DECdecision. The exported
    planner can also be reimported into DECplan across servers.

 o  DECplan exports graphical and tabular views and reports in DDIF for-
    mat, which is consistent with the data format accepted by other DECwin-
    dows applications like DECwrite, DECwindows Mail, and DECpresent.

 DECplan Time Manager Client Features

 DECplan Time Manager is a subset of DECplan. All features listed here
 are included with DECplan.



                                  5

 

 Day, Month, and Year Views

 o  Users reserve time and schedule tasks in their Time Manager Day view,
    which DECplan then uses to schedule and coordinate time across plan-
    ners.

 o  A user can view the calendar in daily, monthly, or yearly views.

 o  The DECplan server scans the individual contributor's Time Manager
    calendar entries looking for available time to schedule task as-
    signments.

 Meeting Scheduling, Free Time Scans

 o  Users can set up meetings with other DECplan Time Manager users by
    selecting duration of meeting, agenda, location, and performing a
    free time scan of those users' calendars to pick an agreeable meet-
    ing time.

 o  Users can also use distribution lists for groups or network mail
    addresses (sent only to non-DECplan users) to book meetings and con-
    ference rooms and send out agendas.

 o  Meetings can be repeatable in various intervals, for example, daily,
    bi-weekly, or monthly, or they can be individually scheduled.

 To-Do Table

 o  Time Manager users access the task table as a means to store ac-
    tion items and to-do lists. These tasks can be personal items or
    tasks negotiated and delegated as part of a task by the project man-
    ager using DECplan.

 o  The Time Manager users can view and manipulate their own data and
    can easily customize table rows and columns.

 Goals Tracking

 o  Users can define goals, associate a series of tasks required to achieve
    the goal, set a priority and status for goals, and finally track
    the goal to completion using DECplan Time Manager.

                                  6

 

 o  Users have the ability to modify goals as time progresses and pri-
    orities change.

 Alarms

 o  Users can set alarms or reminders on tasks and meetings and can se-
    lect from a range of icons to depict graphically the activity in
    their daily calendar view.

 o  Alarms are repeatable for successive meetings and only need to be
    set once.

 Negotiation

 o  DECplan provides for negotiation of task assignments and meeting
    assignments between two individuals: the originator and the respon-
    der. This feature enables the originator to propose assignments to
    other users (responders). The responder has the option of accept-
    ing or rejecting the assignment and providing a message in response
    to the proposal. Once an assignment is accepted, a copy of the orig-
    inal assignment is stored in the responder's planner.

 o  DECplan also provides a mandate operation for situations where ne-
    gotiation of an assignment is not desirable or appropriate.

 Time Charges

 o  Users can report work completed in their day view or from a table
    view by creating a Time Charge. Time Charges are rolled up into the
    expended effort of a task, thus showing progress made against that
    task. The individual updating status in this manner, using Time Man-
    ager, automatically updates the DECplan project management views.

 Help and Online Training

 o  In addition to the above features, DECplan provides context-sensitive
    online Help to provide users with an understanding of how to use
    DECplan and Time Manager.


                                  7

 

 o  DECplan also provides modular, Bookreader-delivered online train-
    ing to complement the context-sensitive Help. The training modules
    include a set of training planners and exercises.

 Conversion Utilities

 o  DECplan provides two conversion utilities. DECwindows Calendar users
    can convert their personal calendar database to the DECplan database.
    Also, VAX Software Project Manager users are provided with a util-
    ity to convert their database to DECplan. These utilities are in-
    cluded with DECplan.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 33.09.02-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For the DECplan Server:

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 o  VMS DECwindows

 o  VAX Rdb/VMS Run-Time

 Note: The VAX Rdb/VMS Run-Time license is included as part of the Open-
 VMS VAX Operating System. Customers must install VAX Rdb/VMS, Version
 4.0A plus mandatory upgrades where the DECplan server software is lo-
 cated as a prerequisite to running the DECplan and DECplan Time Man-
 ager client products. The DECplan client software does not require VAX
 Rdb/VMS Run-Time services.

 For the DECplan Client and DECplan Time Manager Client:

 For Workstations Running DECwindows

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

                                  8

 

 o  VMS DECwindows

 For Personal Computers Running PATHWORKS Client Software:

 o  PATHWORKS for VMS

 DECplan displays on all PCs supported by PATHWORKS for VMS. In order
 to operate the DECplan or DECplan Time Manager DECwindows client in-
 terface efficiently on the PC, it must be either a 386- or 486-based
 PC with a minimum of 4MB of memory.

 If the PATHWORKS for DOS software is to be used in a server/client en-
 vironment, refer to the following SPDs: PATHWORKS for ULTRIX (SPD 32.44.xx),
 PATHWORKS for OS/2[R] server software (SPD 55.24.xx), and VAXmate Ser-
 vices for MS-DOS[R] (SPD 55.09.xx).

 Support for the OpenVMS VAX Operating System is provided by PATHWORKS
 for VMS (SPD 30.50.xx). Support for the PC DECwindows Display Facil-
 ity requires VMS DECwindows Software or ULTRIX Worksystem Software.

 The PC DECwindows Display Facility requires additional extended mem-
 ory over and above the conventional EMS and XMS memory required by other
 PATHWORKS components.

 A minimum of 750KB of system memory must be free and accessible to the
 PC DECwindows Display Facility after configuring the system. This mem-
 ory may be made up of free conventional and extended memory.

 Depending on the number of DECwindows applications being displayed and
 the memory requirements of each application, more memory may be re-
 quired on the PC. Therefore, the user should test these types of con-
 figurations with PC DECwindows Display Facility prior to production
 use.

 Because the PC DECwindows Display Facility includes its own extended
 memory manager on 80386 PCs, it will conflict with expanded memory man-
 agers that do not support Virtual Control Program Interface (VCPI).
 The PC DECwindows Display Facility may also conflict with other drivers
 using extended memory, such as disk caching programs and RAM drives,

                                  9

 

 if their presence cannot be detected by the PC DECwindows extended mem-
 ory manager.

 DECwindows and X applications that do not take into account the PC hard-
 ware characteristics (such as screen resolution, screen aspect ratios,
 keyboard layouts, and number of mouse buttons) may not function op-
 timally with a PC as a display server.

 In addition to the supported VMS and ULTRIX DECwindows window managers,
 Digital provides a VMS window manager, designed specifically for PC
 screens, that allows the user to move windows off the screen.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 DECplan Server

 Software Licenses: QL-YPB**-**
 Software Media: QA-YPB**-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YPBAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-YPBA*-**

 DECplan Client

 Software Licenses: QL-XC6A*-**
 Software Media: QA-YPB**-**
 Software Documentation: QA-YPBAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-XC6A*-**

 DECplan Time Manager Client

 Software Licenses: QL-XC8A*-**
 Software Media: QA-YPB**-**
 Software Documentation: QA-XC8AA-GZ
    (DECplan Time Manager only)
 Software Documentation: QA-YPBAA-GZ
    (DECplan and DECplan Time Manager client)
 Software Product Services: QT-XC8A*-**

 DECplan Time Manager Upgrade License to DECplan Client, VMS Systems

                                 10

 

 Software Licenses: QL-XNVA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 License Management Facility

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 For the DECplan Server:

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For the DECplan Client:

 License units for this product are allocated on Concurrent Use and Per-
 sonal Use basis.

 Each Concurrent Use license allows one individual at a time to use DEC-
 plan client. Each Personal Use license allows one identified individ-
 ual to use DECplan client.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.02.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS Operating Sys-
 tem documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.


                                 11

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available. For more information, please
 contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 

 [R]  HP-GL is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard Company.

 [R]  MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

 [R]  OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
    chines Corporation.

 [TM]COSTAR is a trademark of Softstar, Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, Bookreader, CDA, CI, DDIF, DEC, DECdecision,
    DECplan, DECpresent, DECwindows, DECwrite, Digital, DTIF,
    MicroVAX, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, Rdb/VMS, TK, ULTRIX, VAX,
    VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXmate, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS
    are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.













                                 12
