 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECwindows Motif[R] Version 1.2 for OpenVMS      SPD
 42.19.01

 This Software Product Description describes the following two prod-
 ucts:

 o  DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS VAX

 o  DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS AXP

 The general description section describes features common to both prod-
 ucts. Any differences in product functionality are indicated in sep-
 arate sections that follow.

 DESCRIPTION

 The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user inter-
 face to the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP operating systems. DECwindows
 incorporates the OSF/Motif[R] user interface as the design center for
 DECwindows applications. OSF/Motif[R] is a graphical user interface
 widely acknowledged as the industry standard. This interface allows
 users to interact with the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP operating sys-
 tems using a point-and-click technique. DECwindows includes a set of
 integrated desktop applications that demonstrate the ease-of-use of
 this user interface and provides OpenVMS AXP users with a base set of
 desktop tools.

 DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS supports both the DECwindows
 XUI and the Motif Window Manager. Although the Motif Window Manager
 is the default window manager, users can switch easily to the XUI Win-
 dow Manager. The DECwindows desktop productivity applications have been
 converted to use Motif, but they also work with the XUI Window Man-
 ager. The DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS layered products
 also contain run-time support for the XUI, OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3,
 and OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2 Toolkits. This means that users can run

                               DIGITAL                    April 1994

 

 XUI and Motif applications, including native applications and, on Open-
 VMS AXP systems, translated applications. (See the Translated Image
 Environment section of this SPD for more information about running trans-
 lated applications.)

 DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS is based on the X Consortium's
 specification for the X Window System[TM], Version 11, Release 5 (X11R5)
 and OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2.[*] X Window System standards supported
 as part of DECwindows Motif include the X11 network protocol, a base
 set of workstation fonts, the C language binding for the Xlib program-
 ming library, and the C language binding for the X Toolkit library.

 Support of the X11 network protocol in the client library and display
 server components provides the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP operating
 systems with the ability to interoperate with other X11-compliant sys-
 tems in a distributed fashion.

 DECwindows supports the client/server distribution inherent in the X
 Window System. This client/server model provides for running X Win-
 dow clients on one node and displaying output to another node, using
 a transport to communicate between the nodes. The DECwindows Motif Ver-
 sion 1.2 for OpenVMS product provides four transport interfaces: lo-
 cal shared memory, DECnet, TCP/IP (using Digital's TCP/IP Services for
 VMS [UCX] or other third-party products such as Multinet[R] and Wol-
 longong), and LAT. Users can also provide their own transport subsys-
 tems and transport interfaces.

 To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows Motif based lay-
 ered product or X application runs on or can communicate with DECwin-
 dows Motif for OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS AXP systems, consult the appli-
 cation's Software Product Description.



 ____________________
 Software   supplied by the OSF[R] may not be upward compatible with fu-

   ture DECwindows releases.


                                  2

 

 The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS user environment consists of four ba-
 sic components:

 1. Session Manager
    Session Manager provides the top-level user interface to a DECwin-
    dows workstation. From Session Manager, users can start applica-
    tions, customize their session, and perform security management.
    Session Manager also lets users specify the language user inter-
    face for supported DECwindows applications if they have ordered,
    installed, and are licensed to use the appropriate DECwindows Mo-
    tif for OpenVMS language variant kit(s). For the supported language
    variants, refer to the DECwindows Motif OpenVMS User Interface Prod-
    uct SPD.

    For more information about which DECwindows Motif desktop appli-
    cations have translated user interfaces, refer to the Software Prod-
    uct Description (SPD) for that language variant. The DECwindows Mo-
    tif language variant SPDs also contain information on specific lo-
    cal hardware and software support provided in the language vari-
    ant kits.

 2. Window Manager

    The Window Manager lets users control the size and placement of win-
    dows. The OSF/Motif Window Manager is provided as the default win-
    dow manager; users can choose instead to work with the DECwindows
    XUI Window Manager. The window manager can be chosen by an indi-
    vidual user or by a system manager for an entire system.

 3. FileView

    FileView, a graphical interface to the OpenVMS file system, allows
    users to navigate the file system and to perform operations on files.

 4. DECterm Terminal Emulator

    The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users with a tra-
    ditional character-cell interface for existing OpenVMS features and
    applications. It is a VT320 terminal emulator. It supports ReGIS
    and sixel, but is not fully VT340 compatible. Programs written for

                                  3

 

    VT52-, VT100-, VT220-, or VT320-class terminals and using OpenVMS
    terminal driver features operate without modification in this work-
    station window. DECterm also provides workstation-oriented features,
    such as mouse-based cursor positioning, variable screen sizes, and
    cutting and pasting of text between DECterm and other DECwindows
    applications. Many programs can also use these features without mod-
    ification.

 Desktop Productivity Applications

 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS provides a set of integrated desktop ap-
 plications that employ a common look and feel to help users easily mas-
 ter their computing environment.

 The following desktop applications are available in DECwindows Motif
 Version 1.2 for OpenVMS:

 o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that are dis-
    tributed and stored online.

 o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator.

 o  Calendar - A personal time-management system.

 o  Cardfiler - A desktop card index or flip file similar to an online
    address and/or phone book.

 o  Clock - An analog and/or digital clock with an alarm.

 o  CDA Viewer - A tool for reading documents containing compound text
    (including Display PostScript text), graphics, and image data on
    DECwindows workstations. Using CDA Viewer, DECwindows workstation
    users can view a processed Display PostScript file that looks the
    same as output from any of Digital's PostScript[TM] printers. You
    can view Display PostScript output with the CDA Viewer and DECwin-
    dows Mail.

 o  Computer-Based Instruction - An online tutorial for novice Motif
    users; users can learn how to use the mouse and perform other sim-
    ple operations with Motif.

                                  4

 

 o  DECsound - An easy-to-use application that lets you play recorded
    messages, record audio messages, mail recorded messages, and in-
    clude recorded audio messages in compound documents.

 o  LinkWorks[*] Manager - A tool for creating and managing links be-
    tween different types of computer information, including mail mes-
    sages, cards from cardfiles, or information from online books.

 o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the OpenVMS Mail facility.

 o  Message Window - A window that displays system messages, such as
    new mail notification or system manager messages.

 o  Notepad - A simple text editor.

 o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor.

 o  Print Screen - A tool for capturing images on the screen; images
    can be printed directly or saved to a file.

 o  Puzzle - A game of numbered puzzle tiles.

 The DECW$EXAMPLES directory in The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS prod-
 uct supplies several audio images (such as animal sounds, laughter,
 and various alarm tones) that can be played back using DECsound on VAXs-
 tation 4000 series and AXP workstations. The CDA Viewer can be used
 to view documents that contain audio images. In addition, DECwindows
 Mail can be configured to include the audio editor for sending and re-
 ceiving voice mail messages. On OpenVMS VAX systems, ALL-IN-1 MAIL can
 be configured to include the audio editor for sending and receiving
 voice mail messages.

 Support for MIT Utility Programs

 ____________________
 The   LinkWorks Run-Time Library (which has been renamed DEClinks) bun-
   dled with DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS is not the same product as the
   LinkWorks Version 2.1 Client/Server Groupware application.  Refer to
   SPDs 48.55.xx through 48.62.xx for more information about the LinkWorks

   Client/Server Groupware application.

                                  5

 

 Several MIT Utility programs, bitmaps, and the Miscellaneous Utili-
 ties Library from the MIT X11 Release 4 and 5 distribution are included
 in the DECW$UTILS directory of the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS lay-
 ered products. The sources and images for a subset of these MIT util-
 ities are included. The XPR (X Print) utility, which allows users to
 capture and print the contents of windows, is new with the DECwindows
 Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS AXP release. A complete list of avail-
 able MIT programs is included in the DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for
 OpenVMS Release Notes.

 The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Help System

 The DECwindows Motif Help system uses the familiar Bookreader inter-
 face to display Help and to retrieve Help information. This Help sys-
 tem includes a Table of Contents and cross-referencing through the use
 of hotspots.

 The DECwindows desktop applications use the DECwindows Motif Help sys-
 tem. When invoking Help, either from a Help menu or from context-sensitive
 Help, Bookreader is started and a Help topic is displayed.

 Local Language Support

 DECwindows Motif is available in many local languages. Please contact
 your local Digital office for the latest information on availability
 of options and supported multilingual configurations. For more details
 on the language variants, refer to the specific language variant SPDs.
 Refer also to the ORDERING INFORMATION and SOFTWARE LICENSING sections
 of this SPD.

 Programming Support

 The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS environment includes an extensive set
 of programming libraries and tools for use by application developers.
 The libraries are provided in the form of shareable images. While OSF/Motif
 Release 1.2.2 programming support is provided, OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3
 and XUI programming support are not.



                                  6

 

 There are three categories of libraries provided:

 o  Standard X Window System libraries, such as Xlib and the Intrin-
    sics (X Toolkit)

 o  OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2 Toolkit support for developing applications
    using the Motif user interface style

 o  Digital added-value libraries that give users additional capabil-
    ities:

    o  Digital's Extensions to OSF/Motif (DXm)

    o  CDA support

    o  Display PostScript support (XDPS)

    o  Porting tools for changing applications from the XUI interface
       to the OSF/Motif user interface

 Components from each of these areas can be used in any combination to
 address the needs of applications. These components can also use the
 tools from a variety of different programming languages.

 Motif language bindings are provided for the following programming lan-
 guages:

 o  DEC Fortran for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP

 o  DEC Pascal for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP

 o  DEC C for OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP

 In addition, C header files supplied by the OSF have been modified to
 work with DEC C++. Pascal and Fortran bindings are included in the DECwin-
 dows Motif kit; OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2 "strongly typed" language bind-
 ings for Ada are available in the DEC Ada Version 3.0A for OpenVMS (VAX
 and AXP) layered product.

 For additional programming support, the DECW$EXAMPLES directory in-
 cludes the following updated programming examples:

 o  OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2 examples (Motif widget set examples)

 o  X11R4 and X11R5 programming examples (Xlib examples)

                                  7

 

 o  Digital-supplied examples

 Programming Support Libraries

 The following sections describe the programming support libraries.

 X Window System (X) Programming Support

 The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib) provided
 by DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS supplies basic resource management (win-
 dows, color maps, input devices) and bitmap graphics services. It de-
 fines a mapping of the X network protocol to a procedure library.

 X Window System Intrinsics Support

 The X Window System Intrinsics library support contains the X Consor-
 tium Release 5 (R5) Intrinsics (X Toolkit). The X Toolkit provides low-
 level routines allowing the creation of user interface objects called
 widgets.

 OSF/Motif User Interface Programming Support

 OSF/Motif is the user interface for Digital and third-party software
 tailored for the DECwindows environment. It establishes the conven-
 tions and styles for graphical applications. Applications use Motif
 components to build user interfaces that look and feel alike.

 The OSF/Motif Style Guide describes the principles, philosophy, and
 components used to build consistent and well-integrated OSF/Motif ap-
 plications. In addition, the DECwindows Companion to the OSF/Motif Style
 Guide provides additional information concerning the style of OSF/Motif
 user interfaces. This style guide companion also provides guidelines
 concerning additional features that Digital provides in the DECwin-
 dows Motif for OpenVMS offering, and includes a Digital preferred ter-
 minology list for a number of supported languages for developers pro-
 ducing OSF/Motif applications in these languages.




                                  8

 

 The OSF/Motif style concepts are implemented by the OSF/Motif Toolkit.
 DECwindows Motif contains both the OSF/Motif and XUI Toolkits; appli-
 cation run-time support is provided for the OSF/Motif Release 1.2.2
 and 1.1.3 (as well as for the XUI) Toolkits. The OSF/Motif Toolkit is
 based on the X Toolkit Intrinsics and contains three components:

 o  OSF/Motif widgets and gadgets for implementing common user inter-
    face objects, such as scroll bars, menus, and push buttons

 o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions for per-
    forming common tasks, such as cut and paste

 o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface definition files
    and creating widgets and gadgets based on the contents of the def-
    inition files

 The OSF/Motif Toolkit is used in conjunction with the OSF/Motif User
 Interface Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface definition files
 produced by this compiler contain the data that describes the form of
 DECwindows applications. These UIL files also allow OSF/Motif Toolkit
 widget and gadget information, such as menu item labels, to be stored
 separately from the toolkit and application run-time code. This ca-
 pability allows application developers to prototype and easily mod-
 ify user interface designs, to separate form from function in appli-
 cations, and to support translatable products that do not require re-
 compilation of source files.

 Digital's Extensions to OSF/Motif

 The DECwindows Motif product adds value to the standard OSF/Motif Toolkit
 by including a library that contains a set of Digital-developed wid-
 gets and run-time routines not available from OSF. The following wid-
 gets provide a common DECwindows interface for some commonly used DECwin-
 dows functions:

 o  A Color Mix widget that enables users to select and mix colors us-
    ing a variety of color models.

 o  A Compound String Text widget that provides support for interna-
    tional right-to-left character sets as well as left-to-right char-
    acter sets.

                                  9

 

 o  A Help widget that allows applications to display appropriate Help
    text in a consistent manner. This widget is provided for backward
    compatibility with OpenVMS DECwindows Motif Version 1.0 and has been
    superseded by the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Help system (hyper-
    help).

 o  A Print widget that allows applications to print files in a con-
    sistent manner.

 o  A Structured Visual Navigation (SVN) widget used by applications
    to display hierarchical information .

 The run-time routines include:

 o  Three DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Help system calls that enable
    users to display online help files using Bookreader.

 o  LinkWorks Services that allow applications to easily participate
    in the LinkWorks Environment. These services provide generic user
    interface and information object manipulation capabilities for man-
    aging LinkWorks Objects.

 o  DECimage run-time support for applications developed using DECim-
    age Application Services. This support includes the Image Services
    Library, Image Display Services, and X Image Extensions.

 Translated Image Environment for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP

 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP provides an array of services to al-
 low the operation of programs that have undergone binary translation
 from DECwindows Motif Version 1.1 or XUI VAX images. These programs
 can perform virtually all user-mode functions on DECwindows Motif for
 OpenVMS AXP systems. However, DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP share-
 able images that are used with translated images are different from
 and incompatible with the shareable images used for native images. Na-
 tive and translated images that use DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP
 software cannot be used together in a process.



                                 10

 

 Without requiring special source code, the Translated Image Environ-
 ment automatically resolves differences between the VAX and Alpha AXP
 architectures, including floating-point registers, condition codes,
 exception handling, ASTs, and others.

 The Translated Image Environment included with DECwindows Motif for
 OpenVMS AXP is sufficient to run images that have been translated else-
 where. The DECmigrate layered product can be used to translate images
 linked with the OSF/Motif Release 1.1.3 Toolkit (shipped in DECwin-
 dows Motif Version 1.1 for OpenVMS VAX) for running on an OpenVMS AXP
 system. For additional information on the precise characteristics of
 programs suitable for binary translation, refer to the DECmigrate Soft-
 ware Product Description (SPD 39.44.xx).

 XUI to Motif Porting Tools

 Digital provides porting tools to aid programmers in porting appli-
 cations to Motif. These tools replace occurrences of XUI names in the
 input source file with the correct Motif names.

 CDA Programming Support

 The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications can use to
 create, read, and write files containing compound text, graphics, and
 imaging data. These files provide a vehicle for recording this infor-
 mation on disk, a medium for interchange of this data between appli-
 cations, and an intermediate form from which high-resolution print-
 able graphics data can be generated.

 Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

 The Display PostScript System provided with DECwindows Motif for Open-
 VMS extends the native X graphical programming environment for DECwin-
 dows users displaying text or images on workstations that support the
 XDPS extension.

 X Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the basic X11
 environment:

 o  Most DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rotation an-
    gle.

                                 11

 

 o  XDPS graphics are specified in a user-defined coordinate system in-
    dependent of monitor density.

 o  Color or gray-scale rendition is automatically modified to take ad-
    vantage of the monitor type through either direct display, color
    dithering, or half toning.

 o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and executed
    on command.

 o  Sophisticated graphics primitives, such as precisely controlled Bezier
    curves, can be displayed.

 o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily.

 Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe[R] Client Library. In
 addition, a converter called pswrap allows users to convert PostScript
 code into C programs that can be called from other languages.

 DECwindows X11 Display Server for OpenVMS Extension Support

 The X11 server protocol is implemented on both the OpenVMS VAX and the
 OpenVMS AXP operating systems. As of OpenVMS VAX Version 6.0, the DECwin-
 dows X11 display server on OpenVMS VAX supports the full X11 proto-
 col and contains significant portions of the Release 4 (R4) and Re-
 lease 5 (R5) code base, plus some optional extensions. By contrast,
 the DECwindows X11 display server for OpenVMS AXP is a direct port of
 the X Window System Version 11, Release 5 (X11R5) display server, plus
 some optional extensions.

 The DECwindows X11 display server is an optional part of the OpenVMS
 VAX and OpenVMS AXP kits. The DECwindows X11 display server, includ-
 ing device drivers and fonts, can be selected for installation dur-
 ing the OpenVMS VAX and OpenVMS AXP installation procedures.

 The DECwindows X11 display server for OpenVMS supports the following
 extensions. Client libraries for these extensions are included in the
 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP
 layered products.

                                 12

 

 o  AccessX (OpenVMS AXP only): "AccessX" as defined by Digital. Pro-
    vides keyboard enhancements to the X Server for people with move-
    ment impairments.

 o  Display PostScript: "Adobe-DPS-Extension" as defined jointly by Adobe
    Systems Incorporated and Digital Equipment Corporation and regis-
    tered with the X Consortium. Allows the display server to execute
    PostScript commands to support the XDPS programming environment.

 o  MITmisc: "MIT-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" as defined by the X Consortium.
    Allows users to determine and to set the server bug compatibility
    mode.

 o  MIT-SHM (OpenVMS AXP only): "MIT-SHM" as defined by the X Consor-
    tium. Provides the ability to share memory XImages between the client
    and server.

 o  Multibuffering: "Multi-Buffering" as defined by the X Consortium.
    Allows the display server to provide support for multiple-buffered
    images.

 o  Shape (OpenVMS AXP only): "SHAPE" as defined by the X Consortium.
    Allows programs to create windows with shapes other than the stan-
    dard rectangle.

 o  X Imaging Extension: "XIE" as defined by Digital and registered with
    the X Consortium. Allows the display server to provide hardware or
    software support for imaging operations for ISL, the Image Services
    Library.

 o  XTRAP: "DEC-XTRAP" as defined by Digital and registered with the
    X Consortium. Allows the display server to provide support for hands-
    off testing programs like DTM, the DEC Test Manager.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 DECwindows Motif runs on any of the supported processors, but requires
 either a workstation, a DOS-based PC, a Macintosh[R] or an X termi-
 nal for display. These display devices must be running an X Window Sys-
 tem, Version 11, Release 4 (R4) or Release 5 (R5) compliant display
 server.

                                 13

 

 Alpha AXP Processors Supported

 Alpha AXP:  DEC 2000 Model 300 AXP Workstation
             DEC 2000 Model 300 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 300 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 300 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 600 AXP Workstation
             DEC 3000 Model 600 AXP Server
             DEC 3000 Model 800 AXP Workstation

             DEC 4000 Model 610 AXP System

             DEC 7000 Model 610 AXP System

             DEC 10000 Model 610 AXP System

 VAX Processors Supported

 VAXft:    VAXft Model 110
           VAXft Model 310
           VAXft Model 410
           VAXft Model 610
           VAXft Model 612

 VAX:      VAX 4000 Model 100
           VAX 4000 Model 200
           VAX 4000 Model 300
           VAX 4000 Model 400
           VAX 4000 Model 500
           VAX 4000 Model 600

           VAX 6000 Model 200 Series




                                 14

 


           VAX 6000 Model 300 Series
           VAX 6000 Model 400 Series
           VAX 6000 Model 500 Series
           VAX 6000 Model 600 Series

           VAX 7000 Model 600 Series

           VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300
           VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX 8530
           VAX 8550, VAX 8600, VAX 8650
           VAX 8700, VAX 8800, VAX 8810
           VAX 8820, VAX 8830, VAX 8840

           VAX 9000 Model 110
           VAX 9000 Model 210
           VAX 9000 Model 300 Series
           VAX 9000 Model 400 Series

           VAX 10000 Model 600 Series

           VAX-11/750

 MicroVAX: MicroVAX 3100 Model 10/10E
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 20/20E
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 30
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 40
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 80
           MicroVAX 3100 Model 90
           MicroVAX 3300, MicroVAX 3400
           MicroVAX 3500, MicroVAX 3600
           MicroVAX 3800, MicroVAX 3900

 VAXstation:VAXstation 3100 Model 30
           VAXstation 3100 Model 38
           VAXstation 3100 Model 40




                                 15

 


           VAXstation 3100 Model 48
           VAXstation 3100 Model 76
           VAXstation 3200, VAXstation 3500
           VAXstation 3520, VAXstation 3540

           VAXstation 4000 Model 60
           VAXstation 4000 Model 90
           VAXstation 4000 VLC

 VAXserver: VAXserver 3100, VAXserver 3300, VAXserver 3400,
           VAXserver 3500, VAXserver 3600, VAXserver 3602,
           VAXserver 3800, VAXserver 3900

           VAXserver 4000 Model 200
           VAXserver 4000 Model 300
           VAXserver 4000 Model 500

           VAXserver 6000 Model 210
           VAXserver 6000 Model 220
           VAXserver 6000 Model 310
           VAXserver 6000 Model 320
           VAXserver 6000 Model 410
           VAXserver 6000 Model 420
           VAXserver 6000 Model 510
           VAXserver 6000 Model 520
           VAXserver 6000 Model 610
           VAXserver 6000 Model 620
           VAXserver 6000 Model 630

 Processors Not Supported

 For performance reasons, DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS VAX
 is not supported on the following processors:

 MicroVAX II, MicroVAX 2000, VAXstation II,
 VAXstation 2000, VAX-11/725, VAX-11/782,
 VAXstation 8000, VAX-11/730, VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785


                                 16

 

 Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 1)

 For Alpha AXP Systems

 Disk space required        140,000 blocks
 for DECwindows Motif
 installation:

 Disk space required for    123,000 blocks
 DECwindows Motif use
 (permanent):

 To support full OpenVMS AXP and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP,
 a system disk with at least 220MB is recommended. However, a subset
 of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Installation of
 DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS AXP gives the user the op-
 tion to install any or all of the following components:

 o  DECwindows Motif User Environment and Applications (base kit) - 66,000
    blocks. This section provides support for running DECwindows Mo-
    tif for OpenVMS AXP applications on AXP compute servers.

 o  DECwindows Motif Programming Support - 13,000 blocks. This number
    includes support for all the programming languages. If only a sub-
    set of languages is installed, the amount of disk space will be less.

 o  DECwindows Motif Programming Examples - 12,000 blocks.

 o  Translated Image Support - 32,000 blocks.

 For VAX Systems

 Disk space required        76,000 blocks
 for DECwindows Motif
 installation:





                                 17

 


 Disk space required for    67,000 blocks
 DECwindows Motif use
 (permanent):

 To support full OpenVMS VAX and full DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX,
 a system disk with at least 318MB is recommended. However, a subset
 of the DECwindows Motif environment can be installed. Installation of
 DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS VAX gives the user the op-
 tion to install any or all of the following components:

 o  DECwindows Motif User Environment and Applications (base kit) - 44,000
    blocks. This section provides support for running DECwindows Mo-
    tif for OpenVMS VAX applications on VAX compute servers.

 o  DECwindows Motif Programming Support - 12,000 blocks. This number
    includes support for all the programming languages. If only a sub-
    set of languages is installed, the amount of disk space will be less.

 o  DECwindows Motif Programming Examples - 11,000 blocks.

 These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
 sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending on the user's
 system environment, configuration, and software options (for example,
 DECwindows Motif programming examples).

 Memory Requirements for OpenVMS AXP Systems

 The minimum amount of memory required for a system user to install,
 boot, and log in to an OpenVMS AXP system running DECwindows Motif for
 OpenVMS AXP is 32 MB. Remote execution of applications requires an ad-
 ditional system that runs the application while the application is dis-
 played on the local workstation.

 The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS AXP systems running DECwin-
 dows Motif for OpenVMS AXP depend on system configuration and window
 and applications usage.



                                 18

 

 Memory Requirements for OpenVMS VAX Systems

 The minimum amount of memory required for a system user to install,
 boot, and log in to an OpenVMS VAX system running DECwindows Motif for
 OpenVMS VAX is 12MB; 16MB is highly recommended for more robust per-
 formance. Remote execution of applications requires an additional sys-
 tem that runs the application while the application is displayed on
 the local workstation.

 The performance and memory usage of OpenVMS VAX systems running DECwin-
 dows Motif for OpenVMS VAX depend on system configuration and window
 and applications usage.

 Supported Multiscreen Configurations

 DECwindows Motif supports workstations with multiple screens. On the
 Alpha AXP operating system, a multiscreen configuration consists of
 a single DEC 2000 AXP or DEC 3000 AXP series workstation that supports
 multiple graphics options. A graphics option consists of a graphics
 controller and a monitor.

 The DEC 3000 Model 400 AXP workstation supports up to three monitors.
 The DEC 3000 Model 500 AXP workstation supports up to six monitors (in-
 tegral graphics plus five HX options). The HX is a TURBOchannel-based,
 2D accelerated graphics option that supports 66 or 72 Hz monitors with
 1280 x 1024 screen addressing.

 See the Systems and Options Catalog for more information.

 Miscellaneous Supported Peripherals

 VSXXX-AB    Tablet (replaces mouse)

 VSXXX-JA    Audio headset

 VSXXX-AA    Mouse

 VSXXX-FA    Mouse


                                 19

 

 CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

 This product is fully supported without restrictions when installed
 on any valid and licensed VAXcluster* configuration.

 *  VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXcluster Soft-
    ware Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Ethernet, and
    mixed-interconnect configurations.

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS is supported on the follow-
 ing operating systems:
    OpenVMS VAX Version 5.5-2, Version 6.0, and Version 6.1
    OpenVMS AXP Version 1.5 and Version 6.1

 OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS and Windows

 o  PATHWORKS for DOS (TCP/IP)

 o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh

 o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS VAX

 o  DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS AXP

 o  Builder eXcessory (BX) for OpenVMS VAX

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.





                                 20

 

 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 CD-ROM (VAX and AXP), TK50 streaming tape (VAX), 9-track 1600-bpi mag-
 netic tape (VAX)

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 For OpenVMS AXP Systems

 The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP product is available as a stan-
 dalone layered product on CD-ROM; in addition, users of multiple Open-
 VMS AXP layered products can obtain DECwindows Motif binaries and on-
 line documentation in Bookreader format as part of the Software Li-
 brary for OpenVMS AXP Layered Products CD-ROM.

 Software Licenses:
    Personal Use: QL-XA1A*-2B
    Unlimited Use: QL-MV4A*-AA

 Software Media:
    Motif AXP media and Bookreader (user and programming) documenta-
    tion: QA-MV4AB-H8
    Motif AXP media and hardcopy user documentation: QA-MV4AA-H8
    CD-ROM Software Library for OpenVMS AXP Layered Products (binaries
    and Bookreader documentation): QA-03XAA-H8

 Documentation:
    Hardcopy Motif User Documentation (VAX and AXP): QA-XA1AA-GZ
    Hardcopy Motif Programming Documentation (VAX and AXP): QA-XA1AB-
    GZ

 Software Product Services:
    DECwindows Motif Personal Use (VAX and AXP): QT-XA1**-**
    DECwindows Motif Unlimited Use (AXP only): QT-MV4**-**






                                 21

 

 For OpenVMS VAX Systems

 The DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS VAX product is available as a stan-
 dalone layered product on CD-ROM; in addition, users of multiple Open-
 VMS VAX layered products can obtain DECwindows Motif binaries and on-
 line documentation in Bookreader format as part of the OpenVMS VAX Con-
 solidated Software Distribution (CONDIST) on CD-ROM. The companion On-
 line Documentation Library (CONOLD) CD-ROM contains most of the DECwin-
 dows Motif documentation, which can be read using Bookreader.
 Software Licenses: QL-XA1A*-**

 Software Media:
    Motif binaries and Bookreader (user and programming) documentation
    (CD-ROM): QA-XA1AB-H8
    Motif binaries and hardcopy user documentation: QA-XA1AA-H* (TK50
    or magtape)
    OpenVMS VAX CONDIST (Layered Product binaries only): QA-VWJ8A-A8

 Documentation:
    Hardcopy Motif User Documentation (VAX and AXP): QA-XA1AA-GZ
    Hardcopy Motif Programming Documentation (VAX and AXP): QA-XA1AB-
    GZ
    OpenVMS VAX CONOLD (Layered Product Bookreader documentation only):
    QA-VYR8A-G8

 Software Product Services: QT-XA1A*-**

 Documentation for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS (VAX and AXP)

 The DECwindows Motif user and programming documentation sets apply to
 DECwindows Motif on both the VAX and the Alpha AXP operating systems.

 The DECwindows Motif User Documentation Kit contains the Overview to
 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS DOcumentation, Managing DECwindows Mo-
 tif for OpenVMS Systems, Using DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS, the DECwin-
 dows Motif for OpenVMS Applications Guide, the DECwindows Motif for
 OpenVMS Quick Reference Card, This documentation kit is included in
 the DECwindows Motif H-kits. It can also be ordered separately.


                                 22

 

 Although the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS User documentation is avail-
 able in Bookreader format, not all books in the DECwindows Motif for
 OpenVMS Programming documentation kit are available in Bookreader for-
 mat. To complete the DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Programming docu-
 mentation offering, you must order the following hardcopy manuals:

 o  X Window System Toolkit: AA-PHF4A-TE

 o  X and Motif Quick Reference Guide: AA-PHQ1B-TE

 o  X Window System: AA-PHF3B-TE

 o  OSF/Motif Programmer's Reference: AA-Q3E5A-TE

 o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS Quick Reference Card: AV-PGZ4B-TE

 DECwindows Motif Language Variants:

 Each language variant kit runs on both VAX or AXP systems.

 Personal Use Software Licenses: QL-XDD**-2B

 Unlimited Use Software Licenses (DECwindows Motif OpenVMS AXP): QL-
 08U**-**

 Unlimited Use Software Licenses (DECwindows Motif OpenVMS VAX): QL-
 XDD**-**

 Software Media and Documentation: QA-XDD*A-H8

 Software Documentation: QA-XDD*A-GZ

 SUSL Subscription Service (AXP): QT-08U**-**
 SUSL Subscription Service (VAX): QT-XDD**-**

 Media and Documentation Update Service (MDDS):
    QT-XDD**-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

                                 23

 

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished only under a license. For more information
 about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Dig-
 ital office.

 Digital provides a DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS license Product Au-
 thorization Key (PAK) with the purchase of a VAX or Alpha AXP work-
 station.

 Media and online documentation kits are not provided with Factory In-
 stalled Software (FIS) systems.

 Licensing of Language Variants

 The language variants of DECwindows are available as options to the
 DECwindows Motif product. Language variants are supported only when
 the version number of the language variant matches the version num-
 ber of DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS.

 Some restrictions apply on language combinations. Refer to the rel-
 evant language variant SPD for details on supported language combi-
 nations in each country.

 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS language variants are generally supported
 only in countries where the language is an official language. However,
 for some countries this may vary. Consult the relevant language vari-
 ant SPD or your local sales office to check for the availability of
 additional language support in your country or location.











                                 24

 

 License Management Facility Support

 DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS supports the OpenVMS License Management
 Facility. License units for DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS are allocated
 on an Unlimited System Use and Personal Use basis. Each Personal Use
 license allows one identified individual to use the layered product.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS AXP operating system Software Product Descrip-
 tions (AXP: SPD 41.87.xx; VAX: 25.01.37) or the OpenVMS VAX and Open-
 VMS AXP operating system documentation.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 [R] Adobe, PostScript, and Display PostScript are registered trade-
    marks of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

 [R] Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

 [R] Motif, OSF, and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks of the Open
    Software Foundation, Inc.

 [R] Multinet is a registered trademark of TGV, Inc.

 [TM]X Window System is a trademark of the Massachusetts Institute
    of Technology.

 [TM]Open Software Foundation is a trademark of Open Software Foun-
    dation, Inc.


                                 25

 


 [TM]The DIGITAL logo, AXP, the AXP logo, Alpha AXP, ALL-IN-1,
    Bookreader, CDA, CI, DDIF, DEC, DEC Ada, DEC Fortran, DECim-
    age, DEClinks, DECmigrate, DECnet, DECterm, DECwindows, LAT,
    LinkWorks, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, PATHWORKS, ReGIS, ULTRIX, VAX,
    VAX 6000, VAX 8200, VAX 8250, VAX 8300, VAX 8350, VAX 8500, VAX
    8530, VAX 8550, VAX 8600, VT100, VT220, VT320, VT340, VAX-11
    /750, VAX-11/780, VAXserver, and XUI are trademarks of Digital
    Equipment Corporation.

 APPENDIX A - THIRD PARTY LICENSING

 Open Software Foundation, Inc., License Terms and Agreement

 Digital Equipment Corporation certifies that DECwindows Motif Version
 1.2 for OpenVMS VAX and DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS AXP
 is OSF[R]/Motif[R] Release 1.2.2 validated as tested with the OSF/Motif
 Validation Test Suite Release 1.1 with no waivers. Digital Equipment
 Corporation certifies that DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS
 AXP and DECwindows Motif Version 1.2 for OpenVMS VAX are compliant with
 the AES/UE Revision Y from Open Software Foundation, Inc.



















                                 26
