



Software

Product

Description


PRODUCT NAME: DECforms/Hangul for OpenVMS VAX, V2.0     SPD 26.D5.03




DESCRIPTION

DECforms/Hangul for OpenVMS VAX V2.0 is the Korean (hereafter referred to
as local language) version of standard DECforms V2.0 which offers a set
of software development tools and a run-time environment for implementing
powerful yet user-friendly human interfaces. DECforms/Hangul extends
standard DECforms to support local language characters under the OpenVMS/Hangul
VAX operating system.

DECforms is DIGITAL's OpenVMS implementation of the proposed ANSI/ISO
standard for Form Interface Management System (FIMS). One of the most
powerful principles reflected in the DECforms architecture is complete
separation of forms and functions. With DECforms, user interface
processing is completely removed from the application program and totally
isolated within the form itself. The application program is only
concerned with the processing of data, not with the gathering and display
of data at the user interface. This makes application programs much
simpler to develop and easier to maintain.

DECforms/Hangul supports Korean data representation that conforms to the
Korea Industrial Standard (KS C 5601-1987), Code for Information
Interchange of the Republic of Korea, hereafter referred to as the Hangul
Character Set..

This SPD describes the local language specific features of the software
product. For details of the DECforms V2.0 features, please refer to
DECforms V2.0 Software Product Description (SPD 29.90.xx).


FEATURES

On top of the standard DECforms features, DECforms/Hangul provides local 
language support to the following components:


Motif Device Support

With Motif device support, users will be able to use the mouse for random
field navigation, modify appearance of both Motif & DDIF panels, and
perform other screen functions.





                                                                   JULY 1994
                                                                 AE-PCLKD-TE
                                                  DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION

                                                                 ASIA REGION






DDIF Device Support

  DDIF output can be converted by the DDIF-to-Postscript compound
   document converter to produce high quality, hardcopy forms for printing
   on Postscript printers.

  Proper replication of screen/panel forms to DDIF files through the use
   of DDIF layout.

One Single Kit for all (four) language versions

  The Asian DECforms kit contains four (Hanzi, Hanyu, Hangul and Thai)
   country variants.  Users will be able to install and run any of the
   country product variants with a valid language UI PAK and a valid
   underlying OpenVMS or VMS DECwindows Motif System.



Forms Manager

  local language character I/O and editing

  proper handling of display attributes
   - bold, reverse, underline, blink, double height, double width

  proper processing of field attributes
   - autoskip
   - active, conditional and unconditional highlight
   - uppercase conversion
   - minimum length validation
   - range validation
   - list search validation
   - validation against a general expression

  proper replication of screen/panel images to files for printing

  support for local currency and number signs

  support for OpenVMS international date/time format definition in local
   language

  proper handling of incomplete local language characters resulting from
   window and object overlay


Panel Editor

  local language character I/O and editing

  proper handling of incomplete local language characters resulting from
   window and object overlay

  support for clipboard operations on local language characters


Form Development Environment

  local language I/O and editing

  interface with HTPU


Independent Form Description Language (IFDL) Translator

  support for local language string data


Form Back-Translator

  conversion of local language DECforms form files into IFDL source files


FMS Converter

  conversion of local language FMS forms


User-Interface

  English or local language (bilingual) text can be selected for:
   menus and forms in Form Development Environment
   help and error messages


Other features include:

Form Compatibility

  conversion of form files created by standard  DECforms is not required


Additional Character sets

  ISO Latin-1 and User Preference character sets will be supported by the
   Form Manager, the Panel Editor, the IFDL Translator and Back Translator


Optional DECforms/Hangul Run-Time System for OpenVMS/Hangul System

An optional DECforms/Hangul run-time system is separately available. The
only DECforms component available in this option is the Form Manager. The
run-time system allows the execution of applications using DECforms/Hangul 
for terminal display and management on a machine other than the one used 
to develop the application.



DOCUMENTATION

In addition to the standard DECforms documentation set, DECforms/Hangul
includes the following documents:

In Local Language:

  User Guide

In English:

  Installation Guide and Release Notes
  Read Me First



HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Processors Supported

Please refer to DECforms V2.0 Software Product Description SPD
29.90.xx.

A minimum system configuration includes:

DEC VT382-K or terminal emulator on PC or DECwindows Motif is required
for local language input and display. Support of 80 or 132 column modes
and display of ISO Latin-1 characters depend on the characteristics of
the terminal.

A workstation is required for Motif interface.

A DEC supported local language printer is required for printing local
language panels and forms.

For details of terminals and printers, please refer to OpenVMS/Hangul SPD
25.G8.xx.


Restrictions

Local language terminal emulators on personal computers are supported
only to the extent that the emulator conforms to the respective local
language environment it is emulating.

For details of other standard restrictions, please refer to DECforms V2.0
Software Product Description (SPD 29.90.xx).

Block Space Requirements: (Block Cluster Size =1)

Disk space required for installation:

Full Development System: 22,000 blocks (11 Mbytes)
Run-time System:          2,600 blocks (1.3 Mbytes)


Disk space required for use (permanent):
Full Development System:

  with samples 20,000 blocks (10 Mbytes)
  without samples      12,000 blocks (6 Mbytes)

Run-time System:         2,200 blocks (1.1 Mbytes)

These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximations; actual sizes may vary depending on the users'
system environment, configuration, and software options selected.



OPTIONAL HARDWARE

Any device supported by the prerequisite or optional software.



CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid and
licensed VAXcluster configuration without restrictions. The sections on
hardware requirements of this product's Software Product Description 
detail any special hardware required by this product.


SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

OpenVMS/Hangul Operating System V5.5-2 or above
DECwindows Motif /Hangul V1.1 or above



VMS Tailoring:

For OpenVMS V5.x systems, the following VMS classes are required for full
functionality of this layered product:

  OpenVMS Required Saveset
  Programming Support
  Utilities



OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

VAX CDD/Plus V4.1 or higher
VAX Language-Sensitive Editor V2.3 or higher

Any OpenVMS programming language that adheres to the VAX Procedure
Calling and Condition Handling Standard.



GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the minimum hardware and software
requirements for the current version.



DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

Tape: 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape (PE),
      TK50 Streaming Tape
      CD-ROM



ORDERING INFORMATION

Full Development System

Software Licenses: QL-VCH4*-**
Software Media: QA-VCH4*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VCH4*-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VCH4*-**

Run-time System

Software Licenses: QL-VNS4*-**
Software Media: QA-VNS4*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VNS4*-**

Full Development Migration Option from VAX FMS (/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Full
Development Systems

Software Licenses: QL-VUV4*-**
Software Media: QA-VCH4*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VCH4*-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VCH4*-**


Run-time Migration Option from VAX FMS(/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Run-time System

Software Licenses: QL-VUW4*-**
Software Media: QA-VNS4*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VNS4*-**

* Denotes variant fields



SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions of Sales. For more information about
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL
office.


Single-Use Migration License Options

Current licensed users of either VAX FMS(/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Full
Development Systems are eligible for the DECforms Full Development
Migration License Option. This is a Single-Use License offered at
a reduced price and provides all the License rights described above.

The Single-Use Migration License Option is your right to use the soft
ware product on a single VAX processor currently licensed for either the
VAX FMS(/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Full Development System. The DECforms
software kit associated with this license is identical to that associated
with the standard license. The existing VAX FMS(/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Full
Development License remains valid after the purchase and installation of
the DECforms Full Development Migration License Option.

Current licensed users of either VAX FMS(/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Run-time
Systems are eligible for the DECforms Full Run-time Migration License
Option. This is a Single-Use License offered at a reduced price and
provides all the License rights described above.


The Single-Use Migration License Option is your right to use the soft
ware product on a single VAX processor currently licensed for either the
VAX FMS(/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Run-time System. The DECforms software kit
associated with this license is identical to that associated with the 
standard license. The existing VAX FMS(/Hangul) or VAX TDMS Run-time 
License remains valid after the purchase and installation of the DECforms 
Run-time Migration License Option.



LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facility.
License units for both the Full Development System and Run-time System
are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to OpenVMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the
License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS Operating System
documentation set.



SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more
information, please contact your local DIGITAL office.



SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
Addendum.
