 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DECalc, Version 4.0       SPD 25.79.11

           DESCRIPTION

           VAX DECalc is an electronic spreadsheet package for creat-
           ing, editing, and manipulating numbers in a worksheet for-
           mat. VAX DECalc is specifically designed for use on multiuser
           systems and over a network. VAX DEC
           alc executes in native mode under the VMS Operating System
           and drives VT100, VT200, or VT300 series terminals. VAX DE-
           Calc comes with an extensive reference manual containing prac-
           tice sessions and, therefore, requires little computer ex-
           perience.

           Features

           The VAX DECalc spreadsheet consists of a rectangular grid
           (702 columns x 9,999 rows). Each box or cell in the grid can
           contain:

           o  An alphanumeric label (up to 255 characters long)

           o  A numerical value (up to 12 decimal digits, or up to 12
              significant decimal digits within a range of .294E-38 to
              1.7E-38)

           o  A "relationship"

           A "relationship" is a mathematical expression that defines
           the value of the box as a function of the value of other boxes.
           Among the features and limitations of relationships are:



                                    DIGITAL              August 1991

                                                         AE-N756L-TE

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           -  Relative/Absolute referencing - Absolute and relative box
              referencing, the ability to put the $ symbol in a box name
              to differentiate between relative and absolute row and
              column references.

           -  Addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and ex-
              ponentiation are supported; as well as various mathemat-
              ical, statistical, and trigonometric functions.

           -  The user can specify, on a global basis, whether expres-
              sions are evaluated according to standard algebraic or-
              der of precedence, or strictly left to right. The order
              can also be modified by parentheses.

           -  Comments may be included after an expression.

           -  Maximum length of any box entry is 255 characters (in-
              cluding comments).

           -  Recursive relationships are not permitted; they are de-
              tected and reported as errors.

           -  String concatenation.

           The maximum theoretical size of the grid is 702 columns by
           9,999 rows. The practical limit is a function of available
           memory and/or storage space. VAX DECalc allows multiple grids
           to be stored and retrieved, but users can access only one
           grid at a time.

           Upon entering VAX DECalc, the terminal display screen is di-
           vided into:

           o  A window onto the grid

           o  A set of reserved areas for messages, prompts, and other
              user interaction

           The window displays a portion of the total grid. The cur-
           rent value of each box within the window is displayed. For
           boxes containing relationships, the resulting values are dis-
           played.

                                       2

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           The number of boxes displayed at any time is a function of
           various parameters (start-up = 7 columns x 20 rows). Var-
           ious portions of large grids can be viewed by scrolling the
           window over the grid.

           The user can specify the displayed width for each column and
           the display positions formats for each box. Labels, values,
           and relationships are entered interactively, via the ter-
           minal keyboard, as follows:

           o  The "marker" (highlighted grid box pointer) is positioned
              to the desired box using the cursor keys. The window scrolls
              as necessary.

           o  As new data is entered, it is displayed outside the win-
              dow. It may be altered or canceled at any time prior to
              termination, leaving the grid unchanged.

           o  When the data-entry is terminated with the Return key or
              one of the marker keys, the new data replaces the pre-
              vious contents of the box. The new value is displayed within
              the window.

           o  In the normal Automatic Recalculation mode, if the box
              just changed is referenced directly or indirectly by other
              boxes, all of the affected boxes recalculate. The new val-
              ues displaye if they appear within the window.

           VAX DECalc also provides commands for grid manipulation. Dur-
           ing command input, the user is prompted for any options or
           suboptions. The user can abort at any point prior to com-
           pleting entry of the command, leaving the grid unchanged.
           Some of the major commands are:

           o  BLANK the contents of one or more boxes or the entire grid.
              The user has the option of blanking formulas, values, or
              both.

           o  INSERT, DELETE, or MOVE multiple rows, columns, or grid
              sections. Grid references within relationships are ad-
              justed to maintain the original logical relationship.

                                       3

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           o  Specify a CONTINUOUS LABEL that will continue from left
              to right across boxes in the display, ignoring the space
              character that normally separates grid columns.

           o  CONSOLIDATE - Retrieves grid sections from up to 99 other
              grids and overlays them onto a section of the current grid
              and either adds, subtracts, multiplies, divides or re-
              places the overlaid values.

           o  ORDER - Used to sort data. Two sort keys are allowed with
              either ascending or descending precedence. Sorts can be
              done by column or row.

           o  REPRODUCE - Copies the contents of a box or section of
              boxes into one or more new locations.

           o  TITLES - Locks headings and descriptions on the screen.

           o  WINDOW - The screen can be split either horizontally or
              vertically into two windows. The windows can be scrolled
              independently or together. A grid box can be given a dif-
              ferent format within each window.

           o  NAME - Any section of a grid can be named and that name
              used to represent that section in any other VAX DECalc
              operation.

           Other features:

           o  Journalling of all entered data is performed by default
              in case of an unexpected termination of a DECalc session.

           o  Using the LINK_VALUE function, users can extract a sin-
              gle box value from another grid and use that value in a
              grid calculation in the current grid.

           o  Many keystroke combinations are available to move the marker
              up, down, left, or right by pages, to the top or bottom
              of a row or column, and to the next filled box.

           o  The Privacy Key Sequence (PF1 twice) - Toggles the screen
              image on or off, without affecting the contents of the
              grid.

                                       4

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           o  The HELP Keys (PF2 and HELP) - Provide assistance in the
              use of VAX DECalc. If the user does not specify a topic,
              VAX DECalc provides help on the user's current activity.

           o  The Edit Key (PF3) - Permits simple modification of the
              contents of a box.

           o  The Retrieve Key Sequence (PF4, PF3) - Retrieves the last
              box that was altered.

           o  Tabular Data Entry and Automatic Summation allow strings
              of numbers to be entered into successive boxes via the
              keypad, and summed with a minimum number of keystrokes.

           o  An ``If, Then, Else'' logical function allows the user
              to specify different results for a box based upon a user-
              specified criterion. Nested ``If, Then, Else'' functions
              are allowed as well as the Boolean operators AND, OR, and
              NOT.

           o  The ability to specify via special format descriptor char-
              acters exactly what the display of the box on the screen
              should look like. Special characters such as ``$'', ``,'',
              ``CR'', ``DB'', ''+'', ``-'', and ``%'' can be included
              with the display of a box's value. The user can specify
              the number of decimal digits.

           o  Extensive financial functions including Internal Rate of
              Return, Net Present Value, Depreciation, Payback, and Cash
              Flow Analysis.

           Storage

           o  Complete grids (including all relationships and formats)
              can be saved and restored as VMS files. The names of the
              grids stored within a directory can be listed either one
              at a time, or as a group. The grid data storage format
              is Digital Table Interchange Format (DTIF). This format
              is usually accessible to other programs.


                                       5

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           o  Dump-format Print files are standard ASCII files contain-
              ing commands that reconstruct the grid. The grid can be
              recreated from a Dump file by reading it in as a Command
              file.

              A Dump Command file may also be mailed to others on the
              network.

           o  Print files are standard ASCII files that contain the im-
              age of a grid. Only the displayed values of boxes are in-
              cluded, thus the grid cannot be reconstructed from this
              type of file. These files are intended for printing and
              editing into documents.

              Any contiguous portion of the grid (up to 255 characters
              wide) can be output. A special default permits selection
              of the current window image. Multiple selections may be
              appended to a Print file, or written to any valid VMS file-
              name specified by the user. If the filename the user spec-
              ifies already exists, then the user can choose to have
              the data appended to the existing file, or create a new
              version of the file.

           Integration

           1. VAX DECalc can also be used with VAX DECgraph. Spread-
              sheet data is loaded from VAX DECalc into VAX DECgraph
              to be manipulated and plotted as desired.

           2. VAX DECalc can be used with VAX DATATRIEVE. VAX DECalc
              utilizes VAX DATATRIEVE's callable interface enables users
              to retrieve information from VAX DATATRIEVE for use in
              VAX DECalc, and to use VAX DATATRIEVE interactively.

           3. From within VAX DECalc, users can access:

           -  A mail utility of their choice

           -  An editor of their choice

           -  The VMS DIRECTORY command to view the directory of their
              choice

                                       6

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           -  VMS DCL (may be disabled if desired)

           -  SPAWN, ATTACH

                 The SPAWN option allows the user to begin a subpro-
                 cess without leaving the current DECalc session.
                 The ATTACH option allows the user to connect to a sub-
                 process without leaving the current DECalc session.

           -  Using VAX Xway, users can translate grids from one spread-
              sheet format to another. Supported formats are DECalc/DECalc-PLUS,
              Lotus[R] 1-2-3[R], Multiplan[R], DIF, ASCII tabular, and ASCII
              field.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.79.11-x).
           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

           VMS Operating System

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.79.11-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
           dows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           VAX DECalc

           Software Licenses: QL-310A*-**
           Software Media: QA-310A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-310A*-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-310A*-**

           VAX DECalc-PLUS Upgrade License


                                       7

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           A VAX DECalc-PLUS Upgrade License is available for customers
           who are using DECalc and want to upgrade to the advanced func-
           tionality of DECalc-PLUS. This Upgrade License must be pur-
           chased with DECalc-PLUS media, documentation, and services.

           Software Licenses: QL-VDFA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity
           basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.




                                       8

 



           VAX DECalc, Version 4.0                     SPD 25.79.11


           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R] Lotus and 1-2-3 are registered trademarks of Lotus
               Development Corporation.

           [R] Multiplan is a registered trademark of Microsoft
               Corporation.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation,
               VAXserver, VAX DECalc, VAX DECalc-Plus, VAX DATA-
               TRIEVE, DECwindows, VAX DECgraph, VAX Xway, VMS,
               VT100 and VT300 are trademarks of Digital Equipment
               Corporation.
























                                       9
