 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0     SPD
           36.09.00

           DESCRIPTION[*]

           The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user
           interface to VMS. DECwindows incorporates the Open Software
           Foundation's Motif user interface as the design center for
           DECwindows applications. OSF®/Motif® is a graphical user in-
           terface widely acknowledged as the industry standard. This
           user interface defines a powerful model for interacting with
           the VMS Operating System using a point-and-click metaphor.
           DECwindows includes a set of integrated desktop applications
           that demonstrate the power of this metaphor and provide VMS
           users with a base set of desktop tools.

           VMS DECwindows Motif is based on MIT's specification for the
           X Window System, Version 11, Release 4 and OSF/Motif V1.1.1.[*]
           X Window System standards supported as part of DECwindows
           include the X11 network protocol, a base set of workstation
           fonts, the C language binding for the Xlib programming li-
           brary and the C language binding for the Xtoolkit library.
           For workstations users, DECwindows support for the Adobe Dis-
           play PostScript® System is integrated into X11.
           _________________
         [*] Licensee agrees to execute Display PostScript on only those
             Digital computer systems identified as licensed systems
             in this Software Product Description, and that in any event
             licensee agrees not to make use of the software, directly
             or indirectly, to print bitmap images with print resolu-
             tions greater than 150 DPI, or to generate fonts or type-

             faces for use other than with the Digital licensed system.
         [*] Software supplied by OSF may not be upward compatible with

             future DECwindows releases.

                                    DIGITAL                July 1991

                                                         AE-PHCNA-TE

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           Support of the X11 network protocol in the client library
           and display server components provides VMS with the abil-
           ity to interoperate with other X11-compliant systems in a
           distributed fashion.

           DECwindows supports the client-server distribution inher-
           ent in the X Window System. This client-server model pro-
           vides for running X Window clients on one node and display-
           ing output to another node, using a transport to communi-
           cate between the nodes. DECwindows provides three transport
           interfaces - local shared memory, DECnet, and TCP/IP (us-
           ing Digital's VMS/ULTRIX Connection (UCX) layered product).
           Users can also provide their own transport subsystems and
           transport interfaces.

           To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows or
           X application runs on or can communicate with a VMS DECwin-
           dows Motif system, consult the application's software prod-
           uct description.

           The VMS DECwindows Motif user environment consists of four
           basic components:

           1. The Session Manager provides the top-level user inter-
              face to a DECwindows workstation. It performs applica-
              tion activation, session-wide customization, security man-
              agement, and session control. The Session Manager also
              lets users specify the language user interface for sup-
              ported DECwindows applications, provided they have or-
              dered, installed, and are licensed to use the appropri-
              ate VMS DECwindows Motif language variant kit(s). For the
              supported language variants, refer to the User Interface
              Language Support section of this SPD. For a description
              of which applications have translated user interfaces and
              specific local hardware and software support provided in
              the language variant kits, refer to the relevant language
              variant System Support Addendum (SSA).




                                       2

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           2. The Window Manager provides user control for managing win-
              dows. The OSF/Motif Window Manager is provided as the de-
              fault window manager. The DECwindows X User Interface (XUI)
              Window Manager is also available, allowing the user to
              choose the type of window management preferred.

           3. FileView, a graphical interface to VMS file management,
              allows users to navigate the VMS file system and to per-
              form operations on files.

           4. The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users
              with a traditional character-cell interface for exist-
              ing VMS features and applications. It is a VT320 termi-
              nal emulator. It supports ReGIS and sixel but is not fully
              VT340 compatible. Programs written for VT52, VT100, VT220,
              or VT320 class terminals and using VMS terminal driver
              features operate without modification in this worksta-
              tion window. DECterm also provides workstation-oriented
              features such as mouse-based cursor positioning, vari-
              able screen sizes, and cutting and pasting of text be-
              tween terminal emulators and other DECwindows applica-
              tions. Many programs can also use these features with-
              out modification.

           Applications

           A set of integrated desktop applications is provided as a
           base component of the DECwindows environment. These appli-
           cations establish and demonstrate the consistent DECwindows
           user model. They also provide significant end-user capabil-
           ities.

           The following applications have been ported to OSF/Motif and
           are available in this version of VMS DECwindows Motif:

           o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that
              are distributed and stored online

           o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator

           o  Calendar - A personal time management system

                                       3

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           o  Cardfiler - A hierarchical information storage applica-
              tion similar to an online address and/or phone book

           o  Clock - An analog and/or digital date and time display
              with an alarm notification

           o  Compound Document Viewer - A tool for reading documents
              containing compound text, graphics, and image data on ter-
              minals and DECwindows workstations

           o  Computer Based Instruction - An online tutorial for novice
              Motif users. Users can learn how to use the mouse and do
              other simple operations with Motif

           o  Linkworks Manager - A tool for creating and managing links
              between different types of computer information, like mail
              messages, cards from cardfiles, or information from on-
              line books

           o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS mail fa-
              cility

           o  Message Window - A window that displays system messages,
              like new mail notification or system manager messages

           o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor

           o  Print Screen - A tool for capturing images on the screen
              and either saving the image to a file or printing it di-
              rectly

           o  Puzzle game - A game that challenges the player to sort
              numbered puzzle tiles

           DECwindows workstation users can display PostScript files
           featuring WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) compati-
           bility between the display and any of Digital's PostScript
           printers. Display PostScript ability is available within the
           Compound Document viewer and DECwindows Mail.

           User Interface Language Support

                                       4

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           Please contact your local Digital office for the latest in-
           formation on availability of options and supported multi-
           lingual configurations. For more details on the language vari-
           ants, refer to the specific language variant SPD/SSAs. Re-
           fer also to the ORDERING INFORMATION and SOFTWARE LICENS-
           ING Sections of this SPD.

           Programming Support

           The VMS DECwindows Motif environment includes an extensive
           set of programming libraries and tools for use by develop-
           ers of new applications. The libraries are provided in the
           form of shareable images.

           There are four categories of libraries provided: standard
           X Window System libraries such as Xlib and the Intrinsics,
           libraries needed to support the current base of XUI appli-
           cations, OSF/Motif toolkit support for developing applica-
           tions using the Motif user interface style, and Digital added-
           value libraries that give users additional capabilities.

           The eight libraries provided with VMS DECwindows Motif in-
           clude:

           o  X Window System programming library (Xlib) support

           o  X Window System Intrinsics support (Xtoolkit)

           o  OSF/Motif User Interface support

           o  Digital's Extensions to OSF/Motif

           o  X User Interface (XUI) support

           o  Porting tools to be used to change applications from the
              XUI interface to the OSF/Motif user interface style

           o  Compound Document Architecture (CDA) support

           o  Display PostScript (DPS) support

                                       5

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           Components from each of these areas can be used in any com-
           bination to address the needs of applications. These com-
           ponents can also use the tools from a variety of different
           programming languages. The programming libraries have been
           provided with procedural language bindings in either the style
           of the VAX calling standard, the style of the MIT C language
           programming conventions, or both conventions.

           Motif language bindings are provided for the following pro-
           gramming languages:

           VAX Ada
           VAX FORTRAN
           VAX C
           VAX Pascal

           XUI language bindings are provided for the following pro-
           gramming languages:

           VAX Ada
           VAX FORTRAN
           VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language
           VAX Pascal
           VAX BASIC
           VAX MACRO
           VAX C (VAX calling standard or MIT convention)
           VAX PL/I

           The eight programming support libraries are described in more
           detail below.

           X Window System (X) Programming Support

           The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib)
           provided by the VMS DECwindows Motif environment supplies
           basic resource management (windows, color maps, input de-
           vices) and bitmap graphics services. It defines a mapping
           of the X network protocol to a procedure library.

           X Window System Intrinsics Support

                                       6

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           VMS DECwindows Motif provides a library that contains both
           the MIT Release 3 (R3) and MIT Release 4 (R4) Intrinsics (Xtoolkit).
           The Xtoolkit provides low-level routines allowing the cre-
           ation of user interface objects called widgets. The R3 in-
           trinsics are included in the library to provide binary com-
           patibility for images created using previous versions of VMS
           DECwindows.

           Note: All libraries that Digital ships with VMS DECwindows
           Motif and any applications that are relinked will use the
           new R4 Intrinsics.

           OSF/Motif User Interface Programming Support

           OSF/Motif is the new user interface model for Digital and
           third-party software tailored for the DECwindows environ-
           ment. It establishes the conventions and styles that are en-
           couraged for applications that share a DECwindows worksta-
           tion. Applications use Motif components to build user in-
           terfaces that look and feel like integrated members of the
           Digital computing environment. OSF/Motif also provides more
           efficient user interface objects called gadgets.

           The OSF/Motif Style Guide, available in the VMS DECwindows
           Motif Programming Kit, describes the principles, philoso-
           phy, and components used to build consistent and well-integrated
           OSF/Motif applications. In addition, VMS DECwindows Motif
           provides the DECwindows Companion to the OSF/Motif Style Guide.
           This document provides additional information concerning the
           style of OSF/Motif user interfaces. It also provides guide-
           lines concerning additional features that Digital provides
           in the VMS DECwindows Motif offering, and includes a Dig-
           ital preferred terminology list for a number of supported
           languages for developers producing OSF/Motif applications
           in these languages.

           The OSF/Motif style concepts are implemented by the OSF/Motif
           Toolkit. The OSF/Motif Toolkit uses the MIT Xtoolkit. It con-
           tains three components:


                                       7

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           o  OSF/Motif widgets and gadgets for implementing common user
              interface objects such as scroll bars, menus, and push
              buttons

           o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions
              for performing common tasks such as cut and paste

           o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface def-
              inition files and creating widgets and gadgets based on
              the contents of the definition files

           The OSF/Motif toolkit is used in conjunction with the OSF
           /Motif User Interface Language (UIL) compiler. The user in-
           terface definition files produced by this compiler contain
           the data that describes the form of DECwindows applications
           and allows OSF/Motif toolkit widget and gadget details, such
           as menu item labels, to be stored separately from the toolkit
           and application run-time code. This capability allows ap-
           plication developers to prototype and easily modify user in-
           terface designs, separate form from function in applications,
           and support translatable products that do not require re-
           compilation of source files.

           Digital's Extensions to OSF/Motif

           Digital provides added value to the standard OSF/Motif toolkit.
           Digital ships a library that includes a set of Digital de-
           veloped widgets and runtime routines that are not available
           from OSF. The widgets provide a common DECwindows interface
           for some commonly used DECwindows functions. The widgets pro-
           vided include:

           o  A Color Mix widget that enables users to select and mix
              colors using a variety of color models

           o  A Compound String Text widget that provides support for
              international right-to-left character sets as well as left-
              to-right writing directions

           o  A Help widget that allows applications to display appro-
              priate help text in a consistent manner

                                       8

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           o  A Print widget that allows applications to print files
              in a consistent manner

           o  A Structured Visual Navigation (SVN) widget used by ap-
              plications to display hierarchical information

           The runtime routines provided include:

           o  Three DECwindows Help System calls that enable users to
              display online help files using Bookreader.

           o  Linkworks Services that allow applications to easily par-
              ticipate in the Linkworks Environment. These services pro-
              vide generic user interface and information object ma-
              nipulation capabilities for managing Linkworks Objects.
              Using the Linkworks Services, an application can:

              -  Augment its user interface by adding the Linkworks nav-
                 igation capabilities

              -  Create, copy, and delete Linkworks Objects

              -  Set and retrieve the values of the properties of Linkworks
                 Objects - properties may have one or more values of
                 a number of different types (integer, boolean, float-
                 ing point, date, character string, DDIF string, and
                 LWK object)

              -  Perform property value based queries on the Links or
                 Surrogates contained in Linknets, and the Steps or Sur-
                 rogates contained in Paths

              -  Store and retrieve Linkworks Objects in Linkworks linkbases
                 (persistent storage)

           o  DECimage runtime support for applications developed us-
              ing DECimage Application Services. This support includes
              the Image Services Library, Image Display Services and
              X Image Extensions.

           X User Interface (XUI) Programming Support

                                       9

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           VMS DECwindows Motif continues to provide the XUI Toolkit.
           The XUI Toolkit is based on the MIT R4 Xtoolkit intrinsics.
           This toolkit implements the XUI user interface style used
           by previous versions of VMS DECwindows. However, new appli-
           cations should be written to OSF/Motif as Motif is the open
           standard user interface adopted by a wide variety of ven-
           dors.

           Porting Tools

           Digital provides XUI-to-Motif porting tools to aid program-
           mers in porting applications to Motif. These tools replace
           occurrences of XUI names in the input source file with the
           correct Motif names.

           Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Programming Support

           The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications
           can use to create, read, and write files containing compound
           text, graphics, and imaging data. These files provide a ve-
           hicle for recording this information on disk, a medium for
           interchange of this data between applications, and an in-
           termediate form from which high-resolution printable graph-
           ics data can be generated.

           Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

           The Display PostScript System provided with VMS DECwindows
           Motif extends the native X graphical programming environ-
           ment for DECwindows users displaying text or images on work-
           stations that support the XDPS extension.

           X Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the
           basic X11 environment:

           o  All DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and ro-
              tation angle.

           o  XDPS graphics are specified in a user-defined coordinate
              system independent of monitor density.

                                      10

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           o  Color or gray-scale rendition is automatically modified
              to take advantage of the monitor type through either di-
              rect display, color dithering, or half-toning.

           o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and
              executed on command.

           o  Sophisticated graphics primitives, such as precisely con-
              trolled Bezier curves, can be displayed.

           o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily.

           Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe Client Li-
           brary. In addition, a converter called pswrap allows users
           to convert PostScript code into C programs that can be called
           from other languages.

           Display Server Extension Support

           The VMS DECwindows Motif Display Server supports the fol-
           lowing extensions:

           o  Display PostScript: "Adobe-DPS-Extension" as defined jointly
              by Adobe Systems, Incorporated and Digital and registered
              with the MIT X Consortium. Allows the display server to
              execute PostScript commands to support the XDPS program-
              ming environment.

           o  Phigs Extension to X: "X3D_PEX" as defined by the MIT X
              Consortium. Allows the Display Server to provide 3D hard-
              ware support for DEC PHIGS, the Programmer's Hierarchi-
              cal Interactive Graphics System.

           o  X Imaging Extension: "Xie" as defined by the MIT X Con-
              sortium. Allows the Display Server to provide hardware
              or software support for imaging operations for ISL, the
              image services library.

           o  XTRAP: "DEC-XTRAP" as defined by Digital and registered
              with the MIT X Consortium. Allows the display service to
              provide support for hands-off testing programs like DTM,
              the DEC Test Manager.

                                      11

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           o  Multi-Buffering: "Multi-Buffering" as defined by the MIT
              X Consortium. Allows the display server to provide sup-
              port for multiply-buffered images.


           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, or VAXserver configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 36.09.00-x).

           VMS DECwindows Motif runs on any of the supported proces-
           sors, but requires either a workstation, a DOS-based PC, a
           Macintosh® or an Xterminal for display. These display de-
           vices must be running an X Window System, Version 11, Re-
           lease 4 compliant display server.

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System

           *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 36.09.00-x) for
              availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
              software and for information regarding components of VMS
              DECwindows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-XA1A*-** or QP-XA1**-**
           Software Media: QA-XA1**-H*
           Software Documentation: QA-XA1**-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-XA1**-**

           For Additional Language Variants:

           Software Licenses: QL-XDD**-**
           Software Media: QA-XDD**-**
           Software Documentation: QA-XDD**-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-XDD**-**



                                      12

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           Customers who wish to run DECwindows over TCP/IP need only
           purchase the VMS/ULTRIX Connection product media and doc-
           umentation kit. The license rights for TCP/IP in a DECwin-
           dows environment are included in the VMS Operating System
           license. Customers who want to utilize the full VMS/ULTRIX
           Connection functionality (FTP, NFS, TELNET) need to purchase
           a separate license. Refer to the VMS/ULTRIX Connection Sys-
           tem Support Addendum (SSA 25.A4.xx-x) for required versions.

           Refer to the Third Party Licensing section in Appendix A,
           for information regarding the Adobe licensing.

           For VAXstation customers, Digital provides a VMS DECwindows
           Motif capacity workstation license with the purchase of a
           VAXstation system.

           Licensing of Language Variants

           The VMS DECwindows Motif software license is available un-
           der a unilingual or bilingual option. The unilingual option
           (QL-XA1A*-**) includes the right to use VMS DECwindows Mo-
           tif software with the American/English User Interface. The
           bilingual option (QL/QP-XA1*-**) adds another language User
           Interface depending on the option purchased. The bilingual
           option is standard outside the United States.

           Supported language variants for VMS DECwindows Motif include:


                                      13

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           Danish, Finnish, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, French,
           Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Hebrew, Chinese (Simplified
           and Traditional), Korean, and Japanese.

           If additional languages are required, in addition to the dual
           language combinations described above, a separate license
           for each standalone language variant (QL-XDD*-**) is required,
           as well as the relevant software kit. All the supported lan-
           guages are available, but there are some restrictions on lan-
           guage combinations. Refer to the relevant language variant
           SSA for details on supported language combinations in each
           country.

           VMS DECwindows Motif language variants are generally sup-
           ported only in countries where the language is an official
           language. However for some countries this may vary. Consult
           the relevant language variant SSA or your local sales of-
           fice to check for the availability of additional language
           support in your country/location.

           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

           This product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

           License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity
           basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.





                                      14

 



           VMS DECwindows Motif®, Version 1.0          SPD 36.09.00


           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®   Motif, OSF, and OSF/Motif are registered trademarks
               of the Open Software Foundation, Inc.

           ®   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.

           ®   Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Com-
               puter, Inc.

           ®   MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpo-
               ration.

           [TM]Intel is a trademark of the Intel Corporation.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, DECimage, DECnet, DECterm,
               DEC VUIT, DECwindows, Linkworks, MicroVAX, ReGIS,
               TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAX Ada, VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal,
               VAX BASIC, VAX MACRO, VAX C, VAXcluster, VAXft,
               VAXserver, VAXstation, VMS, VT and XUI are trademarks
               of Digital Equipment Corporation.















                                      15
