 






     4

     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0   SPD 25.J1.01

     DESCRIPTION

     DECserver 300 for VMS software provides concurrent Local Area
     Transport (LAT) and Telnet TCP/IP protocol support from a DEC-
     server 300 terminal server to enable connectivity to host sys-
     tems that utilize LAT or TCP/IP protocols. The TCP/IP protocol
     suite is used to connect to UNIX[R] host systems and other host
     systems that support the TCP/IP protocol suite.

     The DECserver 300 Terminal Server is an Ethernet Communications
     Server for Ethernet Local Area Networks. The DECserver 300
     provides a convenient method to logically connect up to sixteen
     Digital asynchronous terminals to one or more service nodes
     (hosts) on an Ethernet. Once the terminal is connected, a user
     can utilize application programs and utilities as though the
     terminal was directly connected to a host via a DMF32, DHU11
     or DHV11/DHQ11 device, with a few exceptions. Thus, it may be
     possible to utilize the DECserver 300 to connect all terminals
     to service nodes in place of traditional interfaces, except for
     host console terminals and remote connection via dial-in modems
     which is not supported.

     The DECserver 300 uses MMJs (Modified Modular Jacks) for the
     attachment of serial devices. The MMJ segregates a Data from
     a Voice connection. The DECserver 300 utilizes the EIA 423-A
     electrical interface standard for local connections. EIA 423-A
     is compatible with the EIA 232-D interface and supports DTR/DSR
     (Data Terminal Ready/Data Set Ready) signals. EIA 423-A supports
     longer cable runs and higher signaling speeds.

                                  DIGITAL                  April 1991

                                                          AE-NE47B-TE

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     The DECserver 300 does not support connections to wide-area
     networks via modems. However, it does provide the capability for
     connections to non-LAT hosts.

     The DECserver 300 also allows for host-initiated connections to
     serial printers. A print symbiont on service nodes can initiate
     connections to serial printers connected to DECserver 300 ports.
     This allows the printers to be distributed throughout a facility
     and accessed transparently by service node users. Incoming host-
     initiated connect requests may be queued FIFO at the server.

     Port-to-port connections on the same server are also supported.

     The DECserver 300 implements the LAT protocol for communication
     with service nodes that implement this protocol on the same
     Ethernet. This interface has been optimized for high terminal
     I/O performance over an Ethernet, while reducing host CPU cycles
     required to handle interrupts. Hence, under most I/O loading
     conditions, a significant performance gain may be realized by
     using the DECserver 300 versus direct terminal connections via
     traditional asynchronous backplane communications interfaces.

     The DECserver 300 also implements the TCP/IP protocol suite
     for communication with host systems that implement TCP/IP. The
     TCP/IP protocols are based on the University of California's
     4.3 Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD). The following TCP/IP
     protocols are supported and adhere to the Defense Data Network
     (DDN) Request for Comments:

     o  Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is the internet stan-
        dard transport level protocol that provides the reliable,
        end-to-end full duplex, stream service that supports many
        application protocols. (RFC 793).

     o  User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is an internet protocol that
        provides datagram service to application programs, allowing
        an application program on one machine to send a datagram to
        an applications program on another machine. UDP is necessary
        for the Domain Name System and other applications. (RFC 768).

                                     2

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     o  Internet Protocol (IP) is an internet standard protocol that
        defines the internet datagram as the unit of information that
        gets passed across the internet, and provides the univer-
        sal addressing scheme for hosts and gateways for internet
        connection-less, best effort packet delivery services. IP
        includes ICMP as an integral part. (RFC 791).

     o  Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is an internet
        network protocol that specifies error and control messages
        used with the internet protocols. (RFC 792).

     o  Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is an internet protocol
        used to perform dynamic address resolution to dynamically map
        or translate an internet address into the correct physical
        hardware address. (RFC 826).

     o  Telnet is the standard internet application level protocol
        for remote terminal connection service. Telnet is a virtual
        terminal facility that allows a user at one site to establish
        a TCP connection to a remote system. Telnet makes the local
        terminal appear as a direct extension of the remote system,
        allowing the user to conduct a session and run application
        programs as if the user's terminal was directly connected to
        the remote system. (RFC 854).
        Both Telnet client and server capabilities are provided:

           Telnet client provides the ability to connect to any
           remote TCP port at an internet address on a local area
           network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN). Telnet client
           allows the user to specify a remote computer by internet
           address as well as by domain name.

           Telnet server provides the ability to accept connection
           requests from internet hosts on a LAN or WAN to DECserver
           300 ports, such as printers, host systems, or other serial
           devices.



                                     3

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



           Telnet character and binary profiles are supported for
           internet sessions. Telnet options supported include:
           status, end of record, remote flow control, echo, timing
           mark, binary and suppress go ahead.


     o  Internet Domain Name System (DNS) Support. The Domain Name
        System provides the translation from system name to internet
        address. The DECserver 300 will interface to user programs
        and send queries to domain name servers for translating
        domain names to internet addresses, and internet addresses to
        domain names. (RFC's 1034,1035).

     o  Subnet Addressing (RFC 950).

     The DECserver 300 also implements and supports the Terminal
     Device/Session Management Protocol (TD/SMP) to manage multiple
     sessions at the device level. The DECserver 300 provides the
     ability to communicate with devices which also implement this
     protocol, and assist in the management of multiple sessions
     for these devices. By implementing this protocol, the DECserver
     300 can permit attached devices to maintain screen and keyboard
     context for multiple LAT and/or Telnet sessions, as well as
     allow these devices to run multiple LAT and/or Telnet sessions
     concurrently.

     The DECserver 300 implements the ODL (On Demand Loading) font
     loading protocol which allows Asian terminals that implement
     the ODL protocol to communicate with a VMS host via a terminal
     server. The Asian terminals will be able to request font defi-
     nitions from a VMS host when connected to a DECserver 300. This
     feature is supported only for LAT connections.

     Software that runs on the DECserver 300 is downline loaded over
     the network from a Phase IV DECnet load host. Terminal access
     using the DECserver 300 does not require DECnet running in the
     same service node; LAT uses the Ethernet addressing mechanism to
     transport terminal messages.

                                     4

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     Features such as login load balancing, multiple terminal ses-
     sions, automatic failover, and remote printer support can lead
     to greater user productivity.

     For wide area network communications, terminal users can connect
     to remote hosts via Telnet through a TCP/IP router or gateway.
     In addition, terminal users can connect to a local service node
     running DECnet, where they can "SET HOST" to a remote system
     via the DECnet network terminal protocol. If this system has
     the requisite X.25 or SNA 3270 access routines, a terminal
     user could communicate to a remote SNA or X.25 host through
     the appropriate gateway and this intervening host. A DECserver
     300 terminal user cannot communicate directly to remote hosts
     through DECnet Routers or X.25/SNA Gateways. Wide area network
     traffic will not provide the same high level of performance
     as local terminal connections, due to the additional DECnet or
     internet protocol overhead.

     Features

     Terminal Connection Management

     Through the use of a simple command, users can establish a log-
     ical connection, called a session, to any service node that
     implements the LAT or Telnet protocol on the same Ethernet LAN,
     or to a remote host that implements the TCP/IP protocol suite.
     This connection makes the terminal appear as if it were physi-
     cally connected to the service node, and the terminal user can
     use standard system utilities and applications supported by that
     node. Each terminal connected to the server can connect to the
     same or a different service node on the Ethernet. Furthermore,
     several servers can be used to connect many terminals to one or
     more service nodes.

     A service node can have one or more services that are offered to
     DECserver 300 users. Services and nodes are identified by name.
     Users always connect to services, not to nodes, although often
     one of the service names will be the node name.

                                     5

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     In a VAXcluster environment, the DECserver 300 sees each VAX-
     cluster on the Ethernet as a collection of service nodes of-
     fering a common service. Each cluster node may also offer a
     service whose name is equivalent to its node name. In this case,
     a terminal user can connect either to the cluster service or a
     service associated with a particular cluster node.

     Load Balancing

     When a connection is made to a service, the actual node for the
     connection is determined by load balancing. Load balancing is a
     process the server uses when more than one node offers the same
     service. Service nodes do not have to be configured in a cluster
     in order for load balancing to be used. Service nodes with the
     same names may be running different operating systems. Using the
     load balancing process, the server connects to the node with the
     highest rating for the service desired. This rating is based on
     the current loading on the nodes that offer the service.

     This feature is supported only for LAT connections.

     Multiple Sessions

     The DECserver 300 allows each user to establish and maintain
     up to eight sessions to one or more service nodes, up to a
     maximum of 128 per DECserver 300. Only one session per user
     can be active at a time. Through simple switching commands, the
     user can access the different sessions without repeating a login
     dialogue each time. Some operating systems may impose limits on
     the number of LAT or Telnet sessions which a host will support.

     Multiple Session Management

     The DECserver 300 server allows direct communication with de-
     vices which support the TD/SMP protocol. This protocol provides
     the ability for the attached device to maintain screen and key-
     board context for the multiple LAT or Telnet sessions which the
     DECserver 300 provides. By implementing the ability to directly
     communicate with this protocol to the attached device, the DEC-
     server 300 can now assist in the management of context of these

                                     6

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     multiple sessions, as well as allow for simultaneous output to
     multiple LAT or Telnet sessions being maintained by the device.

     Outbound Connection Queues

     If a terminal user requests a connection to a server, and the
     requested service is currently in use, the terminal server users
     may opt to have the connection requested queued to the remote
     service. If the user's port has been appropriately configured,
     this feature happens automatically whenever a connection fails
     for this reason. The connection request is queued at the service
     node end and is processed first-in/first-out until such time
     as the user's connection request can be completed. This feature
     assists in the fair management of limited network resources.
     Once queued for connection, the user also has the option to
     cancel the queue entry and proceed with other sessions. This
     feature is supported only for LAT connections.

     Command Line Recall and Editing

     The DECserver 300 server supports multiple command line entry
     recall and editing.

     Welcome Identification

     The DECserver 300 server standard welcome banner, which includes
     terminal server type, version number, internal baselevel, and
     protocol version number is issued whenever a user successfully
     logs in to the server. The server will also print a server
     manager settable identification string. This can be useful for
     automatic server identification, or for small daily messages
     used for communication with the terminal server users.

     Local Mode and Service Mode

     For the most part, the environment provided by the DECserver
     300 is identical to that the user would experience if attached
     directly to the service node. When operating in this mode, the
     user is said to be in Service Mode. Occasionally, such as during
     connection establishment, the user interacts directly with the

                                     7

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     DECserver 300. When operating in this mode, the user is in Local
     Mode.

     In Local Mode, the terminal input is interpreted directly by
     DECserver 300 as commands to be performed by the server.

     Additional commands and displays to support the features avail-
     able with the TD/SMP protocol are usable in Local Mode. These
     commands will be used to enable or disable server recognition of
     the TD/SMP commands.

     Local Mode has three different levels of privilege: privileged,
     nonprivileged and secure. Privileged mode is provided for the
     Server Manager to control the environment of the server and of
     the terminal users. Access to this mode is password protected.
     Nonprivileged commands allow the terminal user to control their
     service sessions, set the terminal characteristics and show
     server information. The Server Manager can set the server to
     secure mode on a per-terminal basis, which further limits the
     commands users can enter to only those which directly relate to
     the user's own terminal.

     The Server Manager environment is a logical extension of the
     user environment. The Server Manager is treated as a server user
     with a privileged status. The Server Manager sets a terminal
     to this status using a command which requires a password. This
     privileged status allows the Server Manager to enter commands
     not normally available to server users. These commands set
     server characteristics, provide control over server port usage,
     and provide the ability to control the user's access to the
     server and network services.

     In Service Mode, the terminal input is passed directly to the
     connected service node with several exceptions. One exception,
     called the local switch character, allows the user to enter Lo-
     cal Mode from Service Mode. The <BREAK> key may also be used for
     this function. Other exceptions, called the forward and backward
     switch characters, allow the user to switch between sessions
     without the need to enter local mode. The switch characters are

                                     8

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     disabled by default but may be enabled by command. Both CTRL/S
     and CTRL/Q are normally interpreted locally but flow control
     using these characters can be disabled.

     Autoconnection

     Autoconnection is a function that automatically connects a
     user terminal to a service node when connection failures occur
     or upon user login to the server. In conjunction with this
     function, a dedicated or preferred service can be specified
     for each terminal user.

     If a dedicated service is specified, the DECserver 300 will
     attempt to connect to that service when a character is typed on
     the terminal keyboard or when an existing connection fails. In
     dedicated service mode, only one session is available. As this
     mode is designed to simulate a direct terminal connection, no
     local mode commands or messages are available to the terminal
     user. Ports with dedicated service can be automatically logged
     out of the server when the user logs out of the service node.

     If a preferred service is specified, the DECserver 300 will
     attempt to connect to that service as with the dedicated service
     mode of operation. However, the terminal user can enter local
     mode and establish other sessions.

     Automatic Session Failover

     If a service is available on two or more service nodes and
     a connection to a service fails, the server will attempt to
     connect the user to another service node offering the same
     service. The user does not have to be already connected to
     that service node. Furthermore, the user's context at the time
     of failure is not automatically restored and login to the new
     service is required. This feature is supported only for LAT
     connections.

     Groups

                                     9

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     Every terminal and service node in a LAT network is a member
     of one or more groups, which are specified by a list of numbers
     from 0 - 255. Groups allow an easy means of subdividing the net-
     work into what appears to be many smaller networks. A terminal
     user is only aware of the services that are offered by nodes in
     the same group(s).

     The Server Manager can specify the authorized group(s) in which
     a terminal is a member. The authorized groups define the set of
     services that the user is allowed to access. In addition, a user
     can further restrict access to services by disabling some of
     the authorized groups using a non-privileged group command. The
     user-settable group codes are a subset of the authorized groups.

     Groups provide a restrictive view of the network. This re-
     stricted view is mainly for user convenience and, although it
     also provides a form of security, it is not intended to be the
     primary form of access authorization or system security for a
     node. Groups apply only to LAT connections.

     Security

     The DECserver 300 provides functions which enhance security
     features already available in the service nodes. DECserver 300
     security includes the ability to lock a terminal's keyboard from
     other users, optional login protection, and nonprivileged local
     mode of operation as a default.

     A user may lock the terminal using a lock password. This allows
     the user to leave sessions running at the terminal without fear
     of security violations. When a terminal is locked, all input
     from the terminal is ignored until the lock password is re-
     entered. The lock feature may be disabled by the Server Manager.

     Each terminal port can be set to operate in a secure mode, which
     causes all commands that relate to other users to be disabled
     for that port.


                                    10

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     Login passwords can be enabled on a per-line basis by the server
     manager. If enabled, the terminal user must enter a login pass-
     word to access server functions.

     DECserver 300 users normally have access to the nonprivileged
     local mode. In this mode, users may only issue commands that af-
     fect their own terminal environment. The server has a privileged
     mode for server manager's use. The mode is password protected.































                                    11

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     Online HELP Facility

     A full online reference HELP facility is available. The server's
     HELP command provides information on the correct syntax and
     details about each command. In addition, a tutorial HELP feature
     allows new users to quickly learn the basics of DECserver 300
     operation. Tutorial HELP may be entered upon logging into the
     server.

     Directory Service

     Any DECserver 300 user can obtain a directory of services avail-
     able to that user with a SHOW SERVICES command. Services for
     which the user is not authorized will not be displayed. Services
     apply only to LAT connections.

     Permanent Characteristics

     The DECserver 300 maintains permanent characteristics in non-
     volatile memory, which is retained even when the power is dis-
     connected. Permanent characteristics are maintained for service
     and server parameters as well as per-port parameters. Permanent
     characteristics can be reset to factory defaults by pressing the
     software reset button on the hardware unit while plugging in the
     power cord.

     Port Characteristics Configuration

     Characteristics governing the operation of an individual port
     can be displayed by a nonprivileged terminal user interactively
     from the user's terminal. Many of the characteristics may be set
     by the user, but certain characteristics are privileged and may
     only be changed by the Server Manager.

     Port parameters that can be set and displayed include: speed,
     character size, group codes, parity, terminal type, access,
     autobaud, default protocol, and password protection.

     Port Access

                                    12

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     A port on a DECserver 300 may be configured in different ways
     depending on the device attached to the port and its intended
     use. DECserver 300 uses MMJs (Modified Modular Jacks) as the
     physical interface. The DECserver 300 utilizes EIA 423-A elec-
     trical interface standard for local connections, which is
     compatible with the EIA 232-D interface and supports sixteen
     asynchronous devices operating at speeds up to 19.2K bps with
     DTR/DSR (Data Terminal Ready/Data Terminal Set Ready) signaling.

     Port access is the characteristic which determines how a port
     may access or be accessed by interactive users and service
     nodes.

     o  Access Local - Designed for interactive terminals. This al-
        lows the device (typically an interactive terminal) attached
        to the port to CONNECT to LAT or Telnet.

     o  Access Remote - Designed for application-driven devices such
        as asynchronous printers which are allocated by a service
        node process. This allows the implementation of certain
        shared printers by multiple service nodes.

     o  Access Dynamic - Designed for devices (such as personal
        computers or printers with keyboards) which require both
        Local and Remote access.

     o  Access None - Designed to allow the server manager to disable
        the use of a port.

     With printer support capabilities, the configuration procedure
     of remote printers needs to be done once and will be automati-
     cally reconfigured on system startup. The particular server port
     must be configured for remote access and set up to match the
     characteristics of the printer. The system startup command file
     must be modified to call the two command files provided with
     the service node software. Finally, the command files themselves
     must be customized to reflect the environment of their node. The
     server can optionally queue remote connects if these connects
     cannot be satisfied immediately. This queue management can be

                                    13

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     enabled for the server by the server manager. Note that this is
     a connection queue only.

     Terminal Operation

     The DECserver 300 software supports the simultaneous operation
     of up to sixteen asynchronous devices at speeds from 75 bps to
     19.2K bps. The software also supports:

     o  Data leads only support

     o  DSR logout

     o  Signal check

     o  Signal control

     o  DSR/DTR flow control

     o  XON/XOFF flow control

     o  Split speed (transmit and receive) terminal operation

     o  Block Mode transfers

     o  Automatic line speed detection

     o  Digital personal computer file transfer

     o  Data transparency mode

     o  Ability to pass break character and error notification

     o  Ability to assist in multiple session management via TD/SMP

     Server Management

     Several facilities exist for managing and troubleshooting server
     operation. The Server Manager in privileged mode can set up
     server identification information, change port characteris-
     tics, or fine tune the operating characteristics of the server.
     Troubleshooting facilities include diagnostic tests, a remote
     console feature, and online statistics.

                                    14

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     A privileged user can diagnose Ethernet communications prob-
     lems by looping messages to an Ethernet host and through the
     Ethernet hardware interface at the server. To diagnose terminal
     problems, users can execute a command to transmit test data to
     their terminal, or the server manager can send test data to any
     terminal.

     The capability also exists for the server manager to test a
     service connection by sending data from the initiating port to
     the service node and back again. The data is then compared and
     any discrepancies reported. At the service node, the data can be
     looped back by the LAT protocol, or internally or externally at
     the service port. This feature is supported only by DECserver
     300 service nodes; VAX/VMS service nodes do not support this
     service loopback capability.

     The server maintains a variety of statistics and counters. These
     include the following: Ethernet data link statistics, LAT proto-
     col statistics, and port error statistics. This data can be dis-
     played and zeroed by the Server Manager. Server parameters that
     can be modified and displayed include the server identification,
     circuit timer, session limits, and login limits.

     Internet statistics are also maintained by the server. Internet
     characteristics such as internet address and subnet mask can
     be modified and displayed. TCP, IP, ICMP, and UDP protocol
     statistics can be displayed.

     Remote Server Management

     The DECserver 300 implements the console carrier feature which
     enables access to the DECserver 300 local mode from a Phase IV
     DECnet host on the same LAN. With the exception of remote con-
     sole port configuration, the entire local mode user interface is
     accessible to the remote console carrier user. This includes the
     privileged commands if the user knows the server's privileged
     password. This capability allows centralized server management
     and remote server diagnosis.

     Communications

                                    15

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     DECserver 300 software is designed to run on DECserver 300
     hardware exclusively, which includes an Ethernet interface for
     connection to an Ethernet transceiver cable.

     The DECserver 300 hardware has sixteen Modified Modular Jacks
     (MMJ) integral to the box. Each port can be individually config-
     ured in various modes:

     o  Data leads only

     o  Signal Control

     o  Data leads with DSR logout (if a terminal is powered down the
        session is automatically disconnected)

     o  Data leads with signal check (checks signal status before and
        during a session)

     o  DSR/DTR flow control

     DECserver 300 Operation

     The DECserver 300 ROM-based firmware provides the necessary
     maintenance operation protocols for downline loading DECserver
     300 software from a Phase IV DECnet load host over the Ethernet
     into server memory. All self-test diagnostics are in DECserver
     300 ROM and are executed on power-up prior to downline load-
     ing the server. In the event of a bugcheck caused by a fatal
     error, the unit will normally attempt to upline dump server mem-
     ory to a DECnet Phase IV host. Following this, the unit will
     automatically initialize itself and invoke a downline load.

     DECserver 300 Configuration and Performance

     The process of configuring the DECserver 300 is based primar-
     ily on tradeoffs of cost and performance within the realm of
     satisfying user application requirements. Network applications
     will range from low-speed/low-cost to those of relatively high
     performance (e.g., connecting high-speed local terminals to lo-
     cal hosts within a local area network). The performance of a
     given server is a function of the expected network traffic, the
     load on hosts to which terminals are connected, and resultant

                                    16

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     processing pursuant to the dedicated function of the unit. Thus
     performance depends on several factors:

     o  Number of terminals

     o  Number of host systems with active connections to the server

     o  Terminal speeds

     o  Terminal user applications

     o  Number and size of host buffers

     o  Terminal workload

     The DECserver 300 can sustain an aggregate character throughput
     of 30,720 characters per second. This is equivalent to running
     sixteen ports at 19,200 bps.

     In order to achieve a viable configuration, the user and/or a
     Digital software specialist should perform a level of appli-
     cation analysis which addresses the factors above. The actual
     maximum data throughput cannot be calculated by multiplying the
     number of lines by the line speed, since many factors already
     discussed in this section may reduce the actual throughput.

     Restrictions on DECserver 300 Usage

     While terminal connections using the DECserver 300 have been
     designed to simulate direct terminal connections as much as pos-
     sible, a few differences necessarily exist because of the nature
     of the product. Under most circumstances, these differences are
     not noticed by terminal users or service node application pro-
     grams. However, applications which are directly dependent on the
     following functions may not operate as with a direct connection:

     o  Applications that depend on reading or setting the terminal
        speed, character size and parity by manipulating system data
        structures

     o  Applications that depend on an extremely fast response time
        (typically less than 200 ms) to operate

                                    17

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     o  Applications that utilize an alternate terminal driver in the
        service node

     o  Applications that expect incoming connections to have fixed
        device names

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver or VAXstation configuration as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.J1.01-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

     VMS Operating System

     DECnet-VAX

     *  Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and
        required versions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA
        25.J1.01-x).

     Refer to the following SPD for information on other supported
     DECserver 300 systems:

     DECserver 300 for ULTRIX (SPD 25.J2.xx)

     DECserver 300 for MS-DOS (SPD 34.87.xx)

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software Licenses: QL-VTUA9-AA
     Software Media: QA-VTUAA-H*
     Software Documentation: QA-VTUAA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-VTUA*-**

     *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

                                    18

 


     DECserver 300 for VMS, Version 2.0                  SPD 25.J1.01



     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, contact your local Digital office.

     The DECserver 300 software license applies to the DECserver 300
     on which the server software runs, not to service host node CPUs
     in the network.

     This product does not provide support for the VMS License Man-
     agement Facility. A Product Authorization Key (PAK) is not
     required for installation or use of this version of the product.

     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information contact your local Digital office.

     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [R]   UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laborato-
           ries.

     [R]   IBM is a registered trademark of International Business
           Machines Corporation.

     [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, VAX, VMS, VAXstation, VAXserver, VAX-
           cluster, VAXmate, MicroVAX, DECserver, DECstation, Pro-
           fessional, Rainbow and DECnet are trademarks of Digital
           Equipment Corporation.





                                    19
