 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECimage Application Services          SPD
           25.E8.02                for VMS, Version 3.0

           DESCRIPTION

           DECimage Application Services provides an application pro-
           gramming interface (API) and programming tools for a fam-
           ily of image capture, processing and display services. The
           services are library resident routines (included with VMS
           DECwindows Motif®) that include the following sets:

           Image      -  image scanner device drivers, device
           Input         setup, and image data acquisition
           Services

           Image      -  image datatype support, file i/o, image
           Services      processing and manipulation, data encoding
           Library       conversion

           Image      -  device independent image rendition con-
           Display       trol, image display, and X Image Extension
           Services      support

           X Image    -  extension to the X Core protocol for com-
           Exten-        municating image resource request with an
           sions         X Image Server Extension

           DECimage Application Services is language independent and
           intended to enable application developers and systems in-
           tegrators handle bitonal, gray scale (photographic), and RGB
           (red, green, blue) color image data. DECimage Application
           Services offer a consistent interface that conforms to the
           VAX-11 Procedure Calling and Condition Handling Standard and
           MIT C bindings and routine names for source code transporta-
           bility. Examples are provided in BASIC, FORTRAN, and C.

                                    DIGITAL                July 1991

                                                         AE-MI21C-TE

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           DECimage Application Services supports CCITT, Group III (1D
           and 2D) and Group IV (2D) [CCITT Standards T.4 and T.6] rec-
           ommendations for bitonal (facsimile) image data compression
           schemes, and the JPEG R5 Baseline recommended standard for
           continuous tone image data compression. It also supports the
           X Window System standard, DECwindows, Motif and the PostScript®
           Language Reference industry standard. It complies with Dig-
           ital's Imaging System Architecture (DISA), Document Inter-
           change Format (DDIF), and Compound Document Architecture (CDA).

           DECimage Application Services features a condition handling
           facility (CHF) to provide error signaling portable between
           VMS and ULTRIX. CHF provides one common interface for both
           VMS and ULTRIX applications and includes messaging support
           services.

           Features

           Image Input Services (IIS)

           o  Device drivers for the MD300, MD400, and MD410 image scan-
              ners.

           o  Assign/deassign local or remote image input device re-
              serving the device for exclusive use and then releasing
              the device. This includes support for remote node access
              and mixed VMS and ULTRIX scanner environments.

           o  et, set, and reset the device attributes.

           o  Read image data synchronously from the device and com-
              bine the data with the image attributes to create and de-
              liver an image frame to the application.

           o  Acquire image data synchronously or asynchronously from
              the device to a specified buffer preallocated by the ap-
              plication.

           o  Cancel asynchronous image data acquisition.


                                       2

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           Image Services Library (ISL)

           o  Frame services

              -  Create/delete image frame in memory

              -  Allocate/free/deallocate/store data plane in buffer

              -  Get/set single image and image frame attributes

           o  Import/export bitmap to/from application buffer

           o  Create/delete region of interest within a frame for pro-
              cessing

           o  Formatting services

              -  Open/close a DDIF file

              -  Create/delete a DDIF stream for reading or writing

              -  Import/export a DDIF frame

              -  Export DDIF page break (hard or soft) into a DDIF stream
                 or file

              -  Export bitonal sixel or PostScript

              -  Compress/decompress bitonal image data using CCITT,
                 Group III (1D and 2D) and Group IV (2D) facsimile com-
                 pression schemes

              -  Compress/decompress grayscale and color image data us-
                 ing JPEG R5 Baseline compression scheme

           o  Domain adjustment

              -  Copy all or a portion of an image into a new image frame

              -  Dither or reduce the bits per pixel

              -  Flip or mirror the image, either horizontally and/or
                 vertically

              -  Rotate the image around the Z axis

              -  Scale or change the dimensions of the image

                                       3

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           o  Image operator services

              -  Combine (16 logical point operations)

              -  Filters for enhancement, edge detection, and noise re-
                 duction

              -  Pixel remapping based on look-up tables or remapping
                 functions provided by the programmer

              -  Tone scale adjustment to enhance contrast

           o  Statistical services

              -  Create/delete histogram of intensities for in-memory
                 image

           o  Image processing primitive services

              -  General purpose convolution engine for filtering func-
                 tions

           Image Display Services (IDS)

           o  Services for display of images on DECwindows workstations,
              DECwindows terminals and supported hardcopy devices

           o  Rendition of bitonal, continuous tone monochrome, and con-
              tinuous tone RGB color images

           o  DECwindows and Motif image widgets with scroll bars to
              render and display an image or portion of an image, and
              to interactively roam through the image

           o  Widget creation routines and tools

           o  Manage sharing of colors and grayscale shades between ap-
              plications

           o  Color sixel output for the LJ250 color printer

           o  Transparent utilization of X Image Server Extension ca-
              pabilities, if available, via X Image Extension proto-
              col

                                       4

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           X Image Extension Client

           o  Session Services - allow clients to initialize and ter-
              minate a session with an X Image Server Extension.

           o  Resource Services - allow clients to create, query, copy,
              and delete one of the following X Image Extensions Server
              resources:

              Photomap-   image objects that contain the image data
                          and closely associated attributes

              IDC     -   image domain context to define the subset
                          or region of an image or process and
                          act as an area operand in area image
                          operations

              Photoflo-   image process context that describes the
                          relationship among the various transfer,
                          enhancement, and rendition processes

           o  Server/Client Image/Export Services - allow clients to
              read and write image data within the X Image Server Ex-
              tension resource from and to core DECwindows X server draw-
              ables.

           o  Transport Services - allow the transfer of image data to
              and from the client and X Image Server Extension in com-
              pressed or uncompressed form.

           o  Process Services - provide form for the application of
              low level image operators and image data, primarily in
              support of preparation for or improvement of a display.

           o  Statistic Services - provide clients with the procedures
              to generate statistical information such as the mean, vari-
              ance, standard deviation, maximum, and minimum about the
              data within an image.

           o  Process Control Services - provide clients with the abil-
              ity to define and apply pipelines containing transport,
              process, and display operations.

                                       5

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           o  Event Services - allow clients to select or query X Im-
              age Server Extension specific events.

           DCL IMAGE is a command line interface to specific functions.
           DCL IMAGE commands include:

           o  IMAGE SCAN (only supports the MD300 Scanner) allows the
              user to create a new revisable form image file (DDIF) by
              feeding a page through a scanner and directing the re-
              sulting image data into the specified image file. It pro-
              vides limited control over these scanner features: bright-
              ness, compression, contrast, mode (line art or halftone)
              and resolution.

           o  IMAGE RENDER converts a DDIF bitonal or continuous tone
              image file into a format suitable for output, display,
              or printing on a specific device. It adjusts the image
              file to match the type, characteristics and presentation
              level protocol of the output device.

           o  IMAGE VIEW permits the user to see a final form bitonal
              or continuous tone image file on a display device which
              supports sixel, DDIF, or X Window System format.

           o  IMAGE ADJUST allows the user to create a new revisable
              form image file from an existing revisable form image file
              (bitonal or continuous tone), allowing three adjustments:
              Crop or extract a piece of the original image; scale (en-
              large or reduce) the original image; and rotate or re-
              orient the original image.

           o  IMAGE CONVERT provides conversion of the Microtek® Eye-
              star[TM] bitonal image file format to DDIF format for in-
              clusion in compound documents.







                                       6

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           SOURCE CODE INFORMATION

           Source code examples in VAX C, VAX BASIC, and VAX FORTRAN
           are provided to show the programmer interface to Applica-
           tion Services.

           Language-specific files for definition of structures, flags,
           and constants needed to interface with Application Services
           are provided.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver, or VAXstation configuration as spec-
           ified in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.E8.02-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS DECwindows Motif

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.E8.02-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
           dows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-892A*-**
           Software Media: QA-892AA-H*
           Software Documentation: QA-892AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-892A*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.





                                       7

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility. License units for this product are allocated on a
           CPU-capacity basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           ®   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.

           ®   Microtek is a registered trademark of Microtek Lab,
               Inc.




                                       8

 



           DECimage Application Services               SPD 25.E8.02
           for VMS, Version 3.0


           ®   Motif is a registered trademark of Open Software
               Foundation, Inc.

           [TM]EyeStar is a trademark of Microtek Lab, Inc.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, CI, DDIF, DECimage, DECnet,
               DECwindows, DDIF, LN03 PLUS MicroVAX, Q-bus, ULTRIX,
               VAX, VAX BASIC, VAX C, VAXft, VAXcluster, VAXserver,
               VAXstation and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equip-
               ment Corporation.






























                                       9
