 






     Software
     Product
     Description

     ________________________________________________________________

     PRODUCT NAME:  DECmcc Director, Version 1.1         SPD 32.46.01

     DESCRIPTION

     The DECmcc software implements Digital's Enterprise Management
     Architecture (EMA) director model, consistent with the ISO/OSI
     management framework. The DECmcc Director software, initially
     implemented under VMS Operating Systems, lets users control,
     monitor, and test manageable objects (entities) in a network.

     The EMA Director Model defines a management platform called a
     director and cooperating but independent software components
     named "management modules." The DECmcc Director is comprised of
     a director and management modules of the following types:

     o  Access Modules (AMs) provide access to and information about
        different classes of entities.

     o  Function Modules (FMs) provide high-level management func-
        tions for managed entities.

     o  Presentation Modules (PMs) provide a consistent user inter-
        face for Function modules.

     The core of the DECmcc software is the Executive which con-
     sists of a management kernel and a set of "function modules."
     The Executive also includes a Management Information Repository
     (MIR) which defines a consistent structure for viewing manage-
     ment data. Together they form DECmcc's operating environment for
     co-existence and interoperation of management modules.

     The DECmcc Director software allows a user to observe and con-
     trol a selected group of DECnet-VAX Phase IV and many other
     entities from a common command syntax and a consistent user in-
     terface. The DECmcc command syntax is compliant with Digital's

                                  DIGITAL                  March 1991

                                                          AE-PC7JB-TE

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     Network Control Language (NCL), the command line syntax used for
     network management commands. Other classes of entities may be
     managed through additional access modules enrolled in the DECmcc
     Director software.

     The director supports the collection of network events.

     With proper planning, deployment and use, DECmcc management
     systems are scalable to the size of the network, ranging from
     a small, homogeneous local area network to an enterprise-wide,
     multivendor, distributed environment. DECmcc software supports
     either, or both, centralized or distributed management styles.

     The DECmcc Director is a single-license product consisting
     of EMA-compliant DECmcc Executive and Management Modules. The
     following is a list of the software components and modules that
     comprise the DECmcc Director.

     EXECUTIVE

     The DECmcc EXECUTIVE provides the environment in which DECmcc
     software management modules operate, allowing them to communi-
     cate with each other and with management information stored in
     the MIR. The DECmcc EXECUTIVE consists of the management kernel,
     the Management Information Repository (MIR), and the Executive
     function modules.

     Among the features of the EXECUTIVE is that, in conjunction
     with appropriate access modules, it provides the ability to
     monitor managed entities. This can be done by polling or through
     a combination of polling and acting as a collection point for
     unsolicited entity event messages. Management Kernel

     The management kernel provides the operating environment, and
     dispatching services for "access" and "function" modules. The
     operating environment consists of a multi-threaded processing
     system, contained within VMS processes, along with a set of
     callable procedures.

     Management Information Repository (MIR)

                                     2

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     The MIR is an integrated repository that contains definitions
     of entity classes, entity instances, entity attributes, entity
     events and private or miscellaneous data required by individual
     management modules. The MIR provides storage and access routines
     for maintaining management information within the DECmcc soft-
     ware. Entity Model with is consistent with the ISO/OSI Structure
     of Management Information (SDI).
































                                     3

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     EXECUTIVE Function Modules

     Control FM

     The Control FM provides access to primitive directives for ob-
     servation and control of managed entities. The Control FM sup-
     ports a pre-defined list of basic directives, plus a small set
     of generic directives that can be used for different purposes by
     different AMs.

     Registration FM

     The Registration FM, in conjunction with the VAX Distributed
     Name Server (VAXDNS) manages data identifying each entity in a
     network. It also defines and manages a set of common reference
     attributes for all entities. The Registration FM uses VAXDNS
     as the DECmcc instance repository. This allows multiple DECmcc
     systems to share the same view of entity configurations.

     Domain FM

     The Domain FM works in conjunction with the Registration FM to
     enable users to define spheres of management interest. Domains
     may contain other domains we well as reference other domains.
     Users can set up hierarchical domains and navigate through the
     managed network from a top-down view. Domains can be represented
     on the Iconic Map PM, enabling users to select domains and
     manage the entities that comprise them.

     Access Modules

     DECnet Phase IV AM

     The DECnet Phase IV AM allows users to manage DECnet Phase IV
     entities such as nodes, circuits, lines, and objects. The DECnet
     Phase IV AM provides an access path to and information about
     the entities it supports. The DECnet Phase IV AM supports one
     global entity class, NODE4, and a number of child entity classes
     such as lines and circuits. With the DECnet Phase IV AM, typical
     management operations might include gathering counters from a

                                     4

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     child entity (e.g., line) through its parent (e.g., a DECnet
     Phase IV Node), or modifying parameters on a remote node.

     Sample AM

     A Sample Access Module is included as part of the DECmcc Di-
     rector. The Sample AM implements a single management directive,
     the SHOW directive, for the DECnet Phase IV node entity and as-
     sociated line subentity. The SHOW directive displays various
     Characteristic, Status and Counter attributes for each entity.
     The Sample Access Module implements a SHOW and TEST management
     directive to manage the Access Module itself to illustrate the
     "management of management" concept. Including the Sample AM with
     the DECmcc Director is intended to ensure proper end-user li-
     censing of access modules developed using source code provided
     in the DECmcc Toolkit (SPD 32.49.xx).

     Presentation Modules

     Presentation Modules included with the DECmcc Director are the
     Iconic Map and the Forms and Command Line (FCL) PMs. The FCL
     PM supports tow modes of operation, Command Line Mode and Forms
     Interface Mode.

     Iconic Map PM

     The Iconic Map presentation module enables users to interact
     with the DECmcc director using a mouse control. Commands as
     well as management data can be accessed by selecting icons
     representing managed domains and entities in a map window and
     through the use of pull-down command windows.

     FCL PM - Command-Line Mode

     FCL Command-Line Mode is a terminal based user interface that
     uses command-line input and output techniques. It is compliant
     with Digital's NCL, the command line syntax used for DECnet
     network management commands.

                                     5

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     Command-Line Mode is available from and terminal or workstation
     compatible with Digital's VT220 terminal. It supports command
     line recall and editing, abbreviation support, on-line help,
     symbol substitution, support of control key sequences, line
     continuation, and typeahead.

     The user interface structure also allows a VMS DCL process to be
     "spawned."

     FCL PM - Forms Interface Mode

     The Forms Interface Mode is an extension of the command-line
     interface that provides a screen based user interface, using
     forms and list input and output techniques. It is available
     from any terminal or workstation compatible with Digital's VT220
     terminal.

     The screen format contains two regions. One region is for enter-
     ing data to input fields for issuing DECmcc commands or "direc-
     tives." The other region is for viewing data or output resulting
     from DECmcc directives. Arrow keys, Previous and Next screen
     keys may be used for reviewing the data in the output region.

















                                     6

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     Utilities

     Several utilities are included that enable on-site enrollment of
     access modules not provided with the DECmcc Director. Documen-
     tation required for such module enrollment is supplied by the
     module developer. The utilities are:

     o  Dictionary Access Program (DAP) Utility,

     o  Parse Table Builder (PTB) Utility,

     o  Test Bed Driver (TBD) Utility,

     o  Help File Builder (HFB) Utility

     The DECmcc Developer's Toolkit Reference manual (order number
     AA-PD5MA-TE) describes each of the tools in detail.

     On-Line HELP Information

     DECmcc includes extensive online HELP information similar to VMS
     HELP. Help information is provided in the following four cate-
     gories: Entity information, Function information, Presentation
     information, and Tutorial information.

     HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

     VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation or VAXserver configurations as speci-
     fied in the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.46.01-x).

     SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

     VMS Operating System

     Layered Products:

     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Distributed Name Service (VAX DNS) - Server must be in-
     stalled somewhere in network.

     For Workstations Running DECwindows:

     VMS Operating System (and necessary components of DECwindows)

                                     7

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     Layered Products:

     DECnet-VAX
     VAX Distributed Name Service (VAX DNS) - Server must be in-
     stalled somewhere in the network.

     *  Please refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 32.46.01-x)
        for required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

     ORDERING INFORMATION

     Software Licenses: QL-VM9A9-AA
     Software Media: QL-VM9AA-H5
     Software Documentation: QL-VM9AA-GZ
     Software Product Services: QT-VM9A*-**

     o  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
        able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
        price book.

     SOFTWARE LICENSING

     This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
     Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, please contact your local Digital office.

     LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

     This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
     ity (LMF).

     License units for this product are allocated at a flat price
     basis, regardless of User/Activity or processor type.

     For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
     to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
     25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
     Operating System documentation set.

     For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
     cies, please contact your local Digital office.

                                     8

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

     A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
     more information, contact your local Digital office.

     Other Network Management Services are also available. These
     include, but are not restricted to, the following:

     o  Network Management Operations Services

     o  Network Management Planning and Design Services

     o  Network Management Implementation Services

     o  Network Management Training

     For local availability, please contact your Digital Sales Of-
     fice.





















                                     9

 


     DECmcc Director, Version 1.1                        SPD 32.46.01



     SOFTWARE WARRANTY

     Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
     the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
     Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

     [TM]  The DIGITAL Logo, VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VAXserver,
           VMS, DECmcc and DECnet are trademarks of Digital Equipment
           Corporation.






























                                    10
