VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator, Version 2.5                     SPD 25.21.13

DESCRIPTION

The VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator (PE) enables Digital Equipment Corporation's 
VT1XX, VT2XX and VT3XX terminals connected to and application programs running 
on a VMS system to interact with IBM RO system application programs and system 
services that utilize the Binary Synchronous Communications (BSC) line 
discipline. Terminal users access the 3270 Terminal Emulator utility which is 
part of the VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator; application programmers use the 
application program interface provided with the VAX 3271 PE product.

The VAX 3270 Terminal Emulator utility allows the VT1XX, VT2XX and VT3XX user 
on a VMS system to access an IBM system. This feature is useful for users who 
are implementing distributed processing with VMS systems. Users who are moving 
applications from centralized mainframes to VMS distributed processors will 
find this capability an efficient migration tool during the transition phase; 
users who occasionally access applications that remain on mainframes can access 
those applications through their local VMS systems.

The application program interface provides a base for distributed applications 
where one component of the application runs in an IBM host system and the other 
component in a VMS system. This type of application is useful in situations 
such as on-line access and update of a mainframe database in response to an 
event in the VAX, or where it is inappropriate to present a 3270 type formatted 
screen to a user who is accustomed to VMS style screens.

Terminal Emulation

The 3270 Terminal Emulator (TE) utility causes a screen display transmitted 
from the IBM system to be displayed on the Digital terminal screen in a manner 
similar to the format on a 3270 display, and maps the VT1XX, VT2XX and VT3XX 
keyboard to simulate the IBM 3270 IDS keyboard. The TE facility is also 
supported for the VMS user of other Digital products running in VT1XX and VT2XX 
emulation mode. Emulation of screen sizes larger than the 24 lines by 132 
columns is restricted to the Digital terminal able to display only a segment of 
the larger emulated screen. This screen segment can be "moved" to cover any 
part of the emulated screen.

Easily modified translation tables convert ASCII terminal input to a subset of 
IBM multinational EBCDIC code. Users can also change the default keyboard 
mappings of the Digital terminal.
F
RO IBM is a registered trademark of IBM Corporation
F

A HELP facility is available that provides information on keys with altered 
3270-oriented functions and other functions such as the display of status 
information.

The status line of a 3270 Display Station is not supported, however much of the 
same information is reported on a special status line which may be overlaid on 
the VT1XX, VT2XX and VT3XX's 24th line. Most existing IBM host application 
programs will operate without modification. Those host programs that use 3270 
features not included in this product (for example, 480 character screens) must 
be modified.

The 3270 Terminal Emulator utility supports the following features of the IBM 
3278 Models 2, 3, 4 and 5 Display Station:

oo   87 key-keyboard with 24 program function (PF) keys and three program assist 
    (PA) keys

oo   Numeric lock

oo   Audible alarm

oo   Protected and unprotected fields

oo   Alphanumeric or numeric data

oo   Intensified display, display, or non-display characters

oo   Auto-repeat keys (as available on a VT1XX, VT2XX and VT3XX keyboard) 

oo   Click and ALT CURSR (as available through the VT1XX, VT2XX and VT3XX SET-UP 
    feature) 

oo   3278 Display Station numeric lock override

Note:	 Intensified and reverse video features require the Advanced Video 
         Option when using a VT100 terminal.

The following are among the features of the conventional IBM 3270 product that 
are not supported for the 3270 TE:

oo     Selector pen, security lock, magnetic strip card reader and operator 
      identification card reader

oo     !-> (tab) and <-! (new line) as auto-repeat keys

oo     <!<! (fast left) and !>!> (fast right) keys

oo     DEV CNCL, CURSR BLINK and CURSR SEL key functions

oo     Structured fields

oo     Programmed fields

oo     960-character screens

oo     3279 Display Station color support

Refer to product documentation for a complete list of supported and unsupported 
features.

Application Program Support

The VAX 3271 PE's applications program interface makes on-line access to a 
mainframe database possible.  Applications on the IBM host system can be coded 
using procedures normally used to support 3270 terminals; the VMS application 
communicates with the IBM application by issuing calls to this package that are 
consistent with other VMS input/output services. VAX 3271 PE manages the modems 
and line protocols, and provides an easy-to-use interface so that the 
application programmer need not be knowledgeable about communications.

Up to 32 separate logical connections can be made simultaneously on a single 
communications line.  The connections can be from the same program or several 
programs on either the VMS system or the IBM host system.

Command Sequence

The emulator executes the WRITE, GENERAL POLL, and SPECIFIC POLL command 
sequences. The VAX 3271 PE does support explicit READ MODIFIED and READ BUFFER 
commands but may process them in a different manner than an IBM system. SENSE 
and COPY commands are not supported.

Network Management

The VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator allows the system manager to control and monitor 
the activity of the PE. The generation procedure can be verified with the 
Installation Certification Procedure supplied with the product. Utilities are 
provided which load the PE software and start and shut down the PE controlled 
lines. The system manager can test communications components using the loopback 
test program as an aid in determining failed components. This feature which 
provides counts of the occurrence of specific types of data transmissions and 
transmission failures, error logging, and statistical routines, can be used to 
assist in tuning the system.

Line Discipline

The communications discipline used by the VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator is the 
3271 subset of IBM's Binary Synchronous Communications (BSC) protocol using 
EBCDIC code.  Specifically, this subset of BSC supports operation of full- and 
half-duplex leased lines in either point-to-point or multi-point 
configurations, at transmission speeds up to 9600 bits per second. Operation at 
line speeds higher than 9600 bits per second is not supported, except as noted 
in the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.21.13-x). The VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator 
does not support switched facilities or contention line control. The VAX 3271 
Protocol Emulator supports transparent BSC capability and can share a 
multi-point line with control units functioning in transparent or 
non-transparent mode.

Note:	 When this software is used on a MicroVAX I system, the maximum 
         supported transmission speed is 4,800 bits per second.

INSTALLATION

Only experienced customers should attempt installation of this product. Digital 
recommends that all other customers purchase Digital's Installation Services.  
These services provide for installation of the software product by an 
experienced Digital Software Specialist.

Customer Responsibilities

Before installation of the software, the customer must:

oo     Have previously installed all requisite hardware including terminals

oo     Obtain, install and demonstrate as operational any modems and other 
      equipment and facilities necessary to interface to Digital communication 
      equipment

oo     Demonstrate equivalency of operation for modems other than Bell System 
      201C, 208A or 209A type modems, or outside the USA, PTT approved modems

oo     Have generated any necessary IBM host software that will be communicating 
      with the VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator to Digital's satisfaction

oo     Make available for a reasonable period of time, as mutually agreed by 
      Digital and the customer, all hardware, communication facilities, and 
      terminals that are to be used during installation

To use the VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator Application Program Interface 
effectively, the customer must be prepared to work at the system programming 
level as well as the more traditional applications program level in both 
Digital and IBM systems.

Successful use of this product requires that:

oo     The customer design the application with full knowledge of what has to be 
      done at the system programming level on the host IBM system to accomplish 
      the desired function

oo     The customer should be capable of generating both the IBM and Digital 
      systems to achieve the desired CPU-to-CPU logical communications links

Delays caused by any failure to meet these responsibilities will be charged at 
Digital's then prevailing rate for time and materials.

Digital installation will be considered complete when the following have been 
successfully performed at the customer site by a qualified Digital Software 
Specialist:

oo     Verification of the contents of the VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator Software 
      kit

oo     Generation of the VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator for use on the customer's 
      system

oo     Verification that Digital supplied devices function with the VAX 3271 
      Protocol Emulator

In addition, if the customer has complied to Digital's satisfaction with all 
items under the Customer Responsibilities section of this document, Digital 
will demonstrate the Digital-IBM link.

This test will consist of the following:

oo     Bringing up the Digital system

oo     Establishing the Digital-IBM link

oo     Verifying that the Digital system is polled or selected by the IBM host

oo     Transferring user-supplied data streams to and from the IBM host using 
      the VAX 3271 PE control program (INS3271)

oo     Logging into at least one IBM application using one of the customer's 
      VTXXX terminals 

It is the responsibility of the customer to ascertain that the host IBM system 
is functioning properly. Digital will perform the demonstration only if the 
necessary data streams are supplied by the customer, and if in Digital's view, 
the host IBM system is in good working order. The 3270 data stream is described 
in the IBM 3270 Information Display Systems: 3271 Control Unit, 3272 Control 
Unit, 3275 Display Station Description and Programmer's Guide (IBM order No. 
GA23-0060) and in the VAX 3271 Protocol Emulator Management and Programming 
Guide.

PREREQUISITE SUPPORT PLAN

A Network Profile must be prepared jointly by Digital and the customer. This 
plan includes descriptions of the Digital and IBM systems, the physical 
communications link(s), the application, the expected traffic, and the 
anticipated level of support required. 

HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the System Support 
Addendum (SSA 25.21.13-x).

SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

VMS Operating System

VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers

*   Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.21.13-x) for availability and 
    required versions of prerequisite software.

ORDERING INFORMATION

Software Licenses: QL-112A*-**
Software Media: QA-112A*-**
Software Documentation: QA-112AA-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-112A*-**

*   Denotes variant fields.  For additional information on available licenses, 
    services and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital Equipment 
Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.  For more information about 
Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your local Digital office. 

LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

License units for this product are allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the VMS 
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the VMS 
Operating System documentation set.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital.  For more information 
on these or other services, please contact your local Digital office. 

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the purchase of 
a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty Addendum of this 
SPD.

WARRANTY LIMITATIONS

This software has been tested and is warranted against IBM system/370 (includes 
30XX and 43XX series) class processor systems with the following IBM software.  
While this software may function correctly with other IBM software and 
equipment and with software other than that supported by IBM, Digital cannot 
offer its standard warranty for this software unless it has been tested with 
such equipment and software configurations.

Although Digital has designed this software product according to the 
specifications for the IBM 3271 Control Unit Model 2 and the IBM 3277 Display 
Station Model 2, as indicated in IBM 3270 Information Display Systems: 3271 
Control Unit, 3272 Control Unit, 3275 Display Station Description and 
Programmer's Guide (IBM order No. GA23-0060), supported features are limited to 
those specified in this Software Product Description.

The following list shows the configurations with which the software has been 
tested and is warranted:

                    Digital Tested/Warranted Configurations

IBM Host Based                  Version	          Release
System Software

For MVS Systems:

   MVS/XA  SP			    2		    2.0

   ISPF/PDF			    2		    3.0

   TSO/E/XA			    1		    4.0

   ACF/VTAM			    3		    2.0

   NETVIEW			    1		    2.0

   CICS				    1		    7.0

   IMS				    2		    2.0

For VM Systems:

   VM/SP			    1		    5.0

   ISPF/PDF			    2		    2.0

   ACF/VTAM			    3		    2.0

   NETVIEW			    1		    1.0

For DOS/VSE Systems:

   VSE SP			    2		    1.6

   CICS/DOS/VS			    1		    6.0

   VSE/ICCF			    2		    1.0

   ACF/VTAM			    3		    1.0

   NCCF				    2		    2.0

   ACF/SSP			    3		    2.0

   ISPF/PD			    1		    1.0


November 1989
BH-K792N-TE


(R) The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital Equipment Corporation.

(T) VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, VMS and VT are trademarks of Digital Equipment 
Corporation
