 






          Software
          Product
          Description

          ________________________________________________________________

          PRODUCT NAME:   VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.3       SPD
          27.46.03


          DESCRIPTION

          The VAXcluster Console System (VCS) is a VMS V5.3 DECwindows
          layered software product which provides a central point for
          system console services and for logging console data received
          from the serviced nodes. From a single terminal or VAXstation
          display connected to the VCS host system, a system manager can
          perform all console functions for all serviced nodes. These
          functions include, but are not limited to:

          o  Shutting down or rebooting the serviced nodes

          o  Running standalone diagnostics

          o  Performing standalone backup operations

          o  Installing layered products

          o  Viewing console output

          o  Reviewing historical console data

          o  Retrieving historical console data for analysis or printing

          o  Searching for console data

          VCS also performs the following functions:

          o  Logs all data and activities between VCS and the serviced
             nodes

          o  Scans incoming messages from the serviced nodes for specific
             text strings that may contain status or error information

          o  Notifies system managers of critical system messages via
             DECtalk, VAXmail, or by changing icon colors

                                       DIGITAL                  April 1990

                                                               AE-HV29D-TE

 


          VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.3              SPD 27.46.03



          o  Enables users to assemble icons (not drawn to scale) into
             graphics displays on a VAXstation screen representing the
             aerial view of your data center and the logical grouping of
             your VAXcluster configurations

          o  Provides an optional security facility to control access to
             the serviced nodes

          VCS can be accessed from locally connected terminals or remotely
          over the Ethernet.

          The VAXcluster Console System allows a system manager or an
          operator to manage up to 32 devices which can be:

          o  VAXcluster systems

          o  Stand-alone VAX systems

          o  Any other device that

             Sends ASCII data over an RS232C line,
             Has an EIA console port
             Supports XON/XOFF and I/O buffering

          Hence, PDP-11s, line printer servers or controllers, LAN
          bridges, and other third-party devices that meet the above
          requirements can be monitored from one central location.

          The VAXcluster Console System software can be installed on any
          VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation platform identified in the System
          Software Addendum (SSA 27.46.03-x) The devices managed by VCS
          are connected to the VCS platform by:

          o  Direct connection, i.e. connecting to a port of a serial line
             interface device (DHV11, DHQ11, DZQ11, or CXY08) within the
             VCS host system cabinet

          o  Host-initiated connection, i.e., connecting to a port of
             a DECserver 200 or 300 which is accessible by the VCS host
             system over the Ethernet. The DECserver port must be mapped
             to an LTA terminal device defined in the VCS host system.

                                          2

 


          VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.3              SPD 27.46.03



          Software Components

          The VCS V1.3 software includes the following components:

          I/O Data Logger - Manages the console lines and logs all data
          received on these lines. In addition, it makes the received data
          available to other VCS components and transmits the data on the
          console lines to nodes designated by those components.

          Data Scanner - Scans the console log data for predefined events.
          The information about detected events is relayed to other VCS
          components for logging and additional processing.

          Event Logger - Records events detected by the Data Scanner. It
          logs all events from all currently configured systems to a disk
          log file.

          Central Control Coordinator Interface - A DECwindows interface
          that provides an aerial view of a data center. From this in-
          terface, system managers can monitor all console activities and
          respond to events detected on the console connections. Console
          events are reflected by the node icons in the display and direct
          the system manager to systems needing attention. Other interac-
          tive interfaces can also be activated from the Central Control
          Coordinator Interface.

          Monitor Interface - Enables system managers to monitor the
          serviced nodes. It monitors these systems by displaying multiple
          windows of information. System managers can connect the primary
          window to a single system or display log data in this window
          while monitoring other nodes.

          Connect Interface - Enables system managers to connect to a
          serviced node, making their terminal the dedicated console (more
          than one system manager can connect to the same node). Once
          connected, all keystrokes, except for the defined "break" and
          "escape" characters, are transmitted directly to the console
          line of the node to which VCS is connected. While connected to
          that node, the system manager has normal console behavior. The
          only exception to normal behavior is that one control character

                                          3

 


          VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.3              SPD 27.46.03



          is reserved to enable the operator to escape back to the VCS
          system from which the connection was made.

          Record Interface - Enables operators to capture console line
          activity on a hardcopy device.

          Review Interface - Enables system managers to retrieve console
          data and event information from the console and event log files.
          The retrieved information and data can be specified in terms of
          source node and time interval.

          Access Interface - A programming interface that provides an
          alternate method for capturing events for additional processing.
          User-written applications can be used with the Access Interface.
          In addition, VCS provides a default application, complete with
          source codes, which sends scan and console events to a specified
          output device.

          Even Notification System - A suite of Access Interface applica-
          tions for interfacing with a wide-range of communication media
          for VCS event notification.

          Configuration Editor - Helps operators create and maintain the
          configuration information that VCS requires.

          Configuration File - Contains information about the nodes being
          serviced by VCS and the VCS environment itself. The Configura-
          tion Editor is provided to aid in the creation and modification
          of this data.

          Log Files - VCS maintains the console and event log files as the
          permanent historical records of console data from the serviced
          nodes. VCS creates a new set of console and event log files
          every 24 hours, beginning at midnight.

          When additional space is needed on the disk device, VCS displays
          a warning message before disk space shortage is critical. Then,
          as additional space is required, VCS deletes the oldest log
          files to make room for the new ones. The system manager can back
          up the log files before VCS deletes them.

                                          4

 


          VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.3              SPD 27.46.03



          Features

          o  Support of up to 32 devices; either VAXcluster system nodes,
             stand-alone VAXsystems or any device that sends ASCII data
             over an RS232 line, has an EIA console port and supports
             XON/XOFF and I/O buffering. The maximum supported console
             terminal speed is 19.2K baud.

          o  All data received from connected devices are logged by VCS
             and identified by source node name and the time received by
             VCS.

          o  Operators can connect to the console port of any node ser-
             viced by VCS from any terminal connected to the VCS host.

          o  VCS can control remote devices via host-initiated connections
             over Ethernet using DECserver 200 or 300 terminal servers.

          o  Operators can remotely access the VCS host system via DECnet,
             LAT or dial-up ports to perform VCS functions.

          o  A security facility is provided to allow the system manager
             to restrict access to VCS-controlled devices.

          o  VCS detects console events by scanning console text messages
             and comparing them with predefined text strings contained in
             the configuration file.

          o  With VAXstation host systems, VCS provides the ability to
             build an icon-based view of all devices connected to it. This
             graphics layout uses color to indicate the severity of an
             event. It also allows the user to easily access a device's
             console by clicking with a mouse to activate a VCS interface.

          o  Users are alerted of critical system messages by changing
             icon colors via a DECtalk device or through VAXmail.

          HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

          VAX, MicroVAX or VAXstation configuration as specified in the
          System Support Addendum (SSA 27.46.03-x).

          Cables and adapters as specified in the System Support Addendum.

                                          5

 


          VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.3              SPD 27.46.03



          SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS *

          For VAX hosts:

          VMS Operating System

          For VAXstation hosts:

          VMS Operating System

          VMS DECwindows (included with VMS Operating System)

          *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.46.03-x) for
             availability and required versions of Prerequisite/Optional
             Software.

          ORDERING INFORMATION

          Software Licenses: QL-V01A*-**
          Software Media: QA-V01A*-**
          Software Documentation: QA-V01AA-GZ
          Software Product Services: QT-V01A*-**

          *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
             able licenses, services and media, refer to the appropriate
             price book.

          SOFTWARE LICENSING

          The VCS license is user-based. The user is defined as a node or
          device managed by VCS.  One license allows the VCS system to 
          have up to four devices (serviced nodes) connected to it.  
          Additional licenses may be purchased in increments of four 
          to accomodate an expanding data center. 

          This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of
          Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions.
          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

                                          6

 


          VAXcluster Console System, Version 1.3              SPD 27.46.03



          LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

          This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facil-
          ity. License units for this product are allocated on a per-user
          basis.

          For more information on the License Management Facility, refer
          to the VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD
          25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility manual of the VMS
          Operating System documentation set.

          For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
          cies, contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

          A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
          more information, contact your local Digital office.

          SOFTWARE WARRANTY

          Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with
          the purchase of a license for the product as defined in the
          Software Warranty Addendum.

          [R]  The DIGITAL Logo is a registered trademark of Digital
               Equipment Corporation.

          [TM] VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation, DECnet, DECwindows,
               DECserver, DECtalk, VAXmail, VAXcluster, MicroVAX and
               VAXserver are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.








                                          7
