



Software

Product

Description


PRODUCT NAME: DECforms/Hanyu for OpenVMS VAX, V2.0      SPD 26.D4.03




DESCRIPTION

DECforms/Hanyu for OpenVMS VAX V2.0 is the traditional  Chinese (hereafter
referred to as local language) version of standard DECforms V2.0 which
offers a set of software development tools and a run-time environment for
implementing powerful, yet user-friendly human interfaces. DECforms/Hanyu
extends standard DECforms to support local language characters under the
OpenVMS/Hanyu VAX operating system.

DECforms is DIGITAL's OpenVMS implementation of the proposed ANSI/ISO
standard for Form Interface Management System (FIMS). One of the most
powerful principles reflected in the DECforms architecture is complete
separation of forms and functions. With DECforms, user interface
processing is completely removed from the application program and totally
isolated within the form itself. The application program is only concerned
with the processing of data, not with the gathering and display of data at
the user interface. This makes application programs much simpler to
develop and easier to maintain.

DECforms/Hanyu supports Chinese data representation that conforms to the
Standard Interchange Code for Generally-used Chinese Characters (CNS
11643) character set of Taiwan, Republic of China, with an extension area
of 8,836 character positions.

This SPD describes the local language specific features of the software
product. For details of the DECforms V2.0 features, please refer to
DECforms V2.0 Software Product Description (SPD 29.90.xx).


FEATURES

On top of the standard DECforms features, DECforms/Hanyu provides
local language support to the following components:

MOTIF Device Support

With Motif device support, Asian DECforms users to have graphical user
interface control, users will be able to use mouse for random field
navigation, modify appearances of both Motif & DDIF panels, and perform
other screen functions.




                                                                 JULY 1994
                                                                 AE-PCLCD-TE
                                                  DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION

                                                                 ASIA REGION




DDIF Device Support

  DDIF output can be converted by the DDIF-to-Postscript compound
   document converter to produce high quality, hardcopy forms for printing
   on Postscript printers.

  Proper replication of screen/panel forms to DDIF files through the use
   of DDIF layout.

One Single Kit for all (four) language versions

  Asian DECforms kit contains four (Hanzi, Hanyu, Hangul and Thai) local
   language country variants.  Users will be able to install and run any
   of the country product variants with a valid language UI PAK and a
   valid underlying OpenVMS or VMS DECwindows MOTIF System.



Motif Device Support

With Motif device support, users will be able to use the mouse for random
field navigation, modify appearance of both Motif & DDIF panels, and
perform other screen functions.


DDIF Device Support

  DDIF output can be converted by the DDIF-to-Postscript compound
   document converter to produce high quality, hardcopy forms for printing
   on Postscript printers.

  Proper replication of screen/panel forms to DDIF files through the use
   of DDIF layout.


One Single Kit for all (four) language versions

  The Asian DECforms kit contains four (Hanzi, Hanyu, Hangul and Thai)
   country variants.  Users will be able to install and run any of the
   country product variants with a valid language UI PAK and a valid
   underlying OpenVMS or VMS DECwindows Motif System.


Forms Manager

  local language character I/O and editing

  leading space suppression when displaying 4-byte character

  proper handling of display attributes
   - bold, reverse, underline, blink, double height, double width

  proper processing of field attributes
   - autoskip
   - active, conditional and unconditional highlight
   - uppercase conversion
   - minimum length validation
   - range validation
   - list search validation
   - validation against a general expression

  proper replication of screen/panel images to files for printing

  support local currency and number signs

  support OpenVMS international date/time format definition in local
   language

  proper hanuage characters resulting from window and object overlay


Panel Editor

  local language character I/O and editing

  proper handling of incomplete local language characters resulting from
   window and object overlay

  support clipboard operations on local language characters



Form Development Environment

  local language I/O and editing

  interface with HTPU

Independent Form Description Language (IFDL) Translator

  support local language string data


Form Back-Translator

  conversion of local language DECforms form files into IFDL source files

FMS Converter

  conversion of local language FMS forms


User-Interface

  English or local language (bilingual) text can be selected for: and
   forms in Form Development Environment
   - help and error messages

Other features include:

Form Compatibility
   - menus

  conversion of form files created by standard DECforms is not required 
   Additional Character sets

  ISO Latin-1 and User Preference character sets will be supported by the
   Form Manager, the Panel Editor, the IFDL Translator and Back Translator


Optional DECforanyu Run-V2.0 Time System for OpenVMS/Hanyu System
An optional DECforms/Hanyu run-time system is separately available. The
only DECforms component available in this option is the Form Manager. The
run-time system allows the execution of applications using DECforms/Hanyu
for terminal display and management on a machine other than the one used
to develop the application.



DOCUMENTATION

In addition to the standard DECforms documentation set, DECforms/Hanyu
includes the following documents:


In Local Language:

  User's Guide

In English:

  Installation Guide and Release Notes

  Read Me First



HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

Processors Supported

Please refer to DECforms V2.0 Software Product Description SPD
29.90.xx.

A minimum system configuration includes:

DEC VT382-D or terminal emulator on PC or DECwindows Motif is required for
local language input and display. Support of 80 or 132 column modes
depends on the characteristics of the terminal.

A workstation is required for Motif interface.

A DEC supported local language printer is required for printing local
language panels and forms.

For details of terminals and printers, please refer to OpenVMS/Hanyu SPD
25.G7.xx.


Restrictions

Local language terminal emulators on personal computers are supported only
to the extent that the emulator conforms to the respective local language
environment it is emulating.

For details of other standard restrictions, please refer to DECforms V2.0
Software Product Description (SPD 29.90.xx).

Block Space Requirements: (Block Cluster Size =1)

Disk space required for installation:

Full Development System:
                         32,300 blocks (16.2 Mbytes)
Run-time System:          2,600 blocks (1.3 Mbytes)

Disk space required for use (permanent):
Full Development System:

  with samples 21,000 blocks (10.5 Mbytes)
  without samples       15,000 blocks (7.5 Mbytes)

Run-time System:          1,300 blocks (0.7 Mbytes)

These counts refer to the disk space required on the system disk. The
sizes are approximations; actual sizes may vary depending on the users'
system environment, configuration, and software options selected.


OPTIONAL HARDWARE

Any device supported by the prerequisite or optional software.



CLUSTER ENVIRONMENT

This layered product is fully supported when installed on any valid and
licensed VAXcluster configuration without restrictions. The sections on
hardware requirements of this product's Software Product
Description details any special hardware required by this product.



SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

OpenVMS/Hanyu Operating System V5.5-2 or above
DECwindows Motif /Hanyu V1.1 or above


VMS Tailoring:

For OpenVMS V5.x systems, the following VMS classes are required for full
functionality of this layered product:

  OpenVMS Required Saveset
  Programming Support
  Utilities


OPTIONAL SOFTWARE

VAX CDD/Plus V4.1 or higher
VAX Language-Sensitive Editor V2.3 or higher

Any OpenVMS programming languages that adheres to the VAX Procedure
Calling and Condition Handling Standard.


GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

The minimum hardware and software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the minimum hardware and software
requirements for the current version.


DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

Tape: 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape (PE),
          TK50 Streaming Tape
          CD-ROM



ORDERING INFORMATION

Full Development System

Software Licenses: QL-VCH3*-**
Software Media: QA-VCH3*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VCH3*-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VCH3*-**


Run-time System

Software Licenses: QL-VNS3*-**
Software Media: QA-VNS3*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VNS3*-**


Full Development Migration Option from VAX FMS (/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Full
Development Systems

Software Licenses: QL-VUV3*-**
Software Media: QA-VCH3*-**
Software Documentation: QA-VCH3*-GZ
Software Product Services: QT-VCH3*-**

Run-time Migration Option from VAX FMS(/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Run-time System


Software Licenses: QL-VUW3*-**
Software Media: QA-VNS3*-**
Software Product Services: QT-VNS3*-**
* Denotes variant fields




SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of DIGITAL's
Standard Terms and Conditions of Sales. For more information about
DIGITAL's licensing terms and policies, contact your local DIGITAL
office.


Single-Use Migration License Options

Current licensed users of either VAX FMS(/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Full
Development Systems are eligible for the DECforms Full Development
Migration License Option. This is a Single-Use License offered at
a reduced price and provides all the License rights described above.

The Single-Use Migration License Option is your right to use the 
software product on a single VAX processor currently licensed for either 
the VAX FMS(/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Full Development System. The DECforms
software kit associated with this license is identical to that associated
with the standard license. The existing VAX FMS(/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Full
Development License remains valid after the purchase and installation of
the DECforms Full Development Migration License Option.

Current licensed users of either VAX FMS(/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Run-time
Systems are eligible for the DECforms Full Run-time Migration License
Option. This is a Single-Use License offered at a reduced price and
provides all the License rights described above.


The Single-Use Migration License Option is your right to use the software
product on a single VAX processor currently licensed for either the VAX
FMS(/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Run-time System. The DECforms software kit
associated with this license is identical to that associated with the
standard license. The existing VAX FMS(/Hanyu) or VAX TDMS Run-time
License remains valid after the purchase and installation of the DECforms
Run-time Migration License Option.




LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY

This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facility.
License units for both the Full Development System and Run-time System are
allocated on a CPU-capacity basis.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to OpenVMS
Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or the
License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS Operating System
documentation set.


SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from DIGITAL. For more
information, please contact your local DIGITAL office.



SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by DIGITAL with the
purchase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
Addendum.
