 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  VAX ACMS, Version 3.3                   SPD 25.50.11
                (Application Control and Management Sys-
                tem)

 DESCRIPTION

 VAX ACMS is a transaction processing (TP) monitor designed for the VMS
 Operating System. VAX ACMS works with other Digital Equipment Corpo-
 ration commercial application software products to provide users with
 a complete and customizable development and run-time environment for
 transaction processing applications such as order tracking, account-
 ing and billing, shop floor control, and insurance claims processing.

 VAX ACMS software helps users through the entire application devel-
 opment life cycle, including the installation, planning, design, de-
 velopment, testing, implementation, management, and maintenance of com-
 plex TP applications. VAX ACMS provides a special-purpose application
 definition language for structured definition of TP application func-
 tions and run-time characteristics.

 VAX ACMS makes efficient use of the VMS Operating System and associ-
 ated hardware resources, making VAX ACMS particularly suited to mission-
 critical applications that require high throughput and performance.

 VAX ACMS integrates with the following Digital layered products:

 o  DECforms or VAX TDMS for forms management

 o  VAX CDD/Plus for the creation, analysis, and administration of meta-
    data

 o  VAX Rdb/VMS, VAX DBMS, and VMS RMS for data management

 o  DECtrace for VMS for performance event data collection

 o  DECtp Desktop for ACMS for multi-vendor client access to ACMS ap-
    plications

                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-Y995L-TE

 

 o  All VAX/VMS languages and tools for application development

 Because VAX ACMS is designed to allow for modular implementation as
 well as development, users can separate and distribute front-end pro-
 cessing (data input/output operations such as forms processing) from
 back-end processing (data calculations and database storage). In ad-
 dition, VAX ACMS allows users the use of non-standard terminal or I/O
 devices (such as bar-code readers and ATMs).

 Features

 o  Application Development Environment

 o  Run-time System

 o  Application Management and Control

 o  Front-End/Back-End Processing

 o  Presentation Services

 o  Database Management

 o  Data Dictionary

 o  Queuing

 o  Security

 o  VAXcluster Environment/Availability

 o  ACMS Run-time Option

 o  ACMS Remote Access Option

 o  Documentation Set

 Application Development Environment

 VAX ACMS uses a high-level, English-like definition language that re-
 places system service calls for most TP application functions. Using
 the VAX ACMS Application Definition Utility, a programmer can:

 o  Structure all application work into three basic steps:

    -  Exchange steps for terminal I/O processing

                                  2

 

    -  Processing steps for database access and general computation

    -  Block steps for performing work common to several processing and
       exchange steps

 o  Control task execution and flow using conditional statements such
    as IF THEN ... ELSE, WHILE DO, SELECT FIRST, and CONTROL FIELD syn-
    tax in conjunction with Boolean expressions

 o  Define and implement subroutine transactions using the CALL TASK
    syntax

 o  Create menus and hierarchies of menus

 o  Define resources used to execute transactions, such as servers, workspaces
    and audit trails

 o  Start and end database RECOVERY units

 VAX ACMS also includes the ACMS Task Debugger to debug VAX ACMS def-
 initions and servers.

 Run-time System

 VAX ACMS includes a complete run-time system for implementing appli-
 cation definitions. The VAX ACMS Run-time System is made up of eight
 specialized processes (four manage the processing of a transaction,
 and four monitor and control the run-time system).

 The following VAX ACMS processes manage the work within ACMS trans-
 actions:

 o  Command Process (CP) - Manages logins and interaction between ter-
    minals and VAX ACMS. CPs can be multi-threaded (one CP process can
    handle menuing and forms I/O for many VAX ACMS terminals simulta-
    neously). The CP passes input data to the Application Execution Con-
    troller (EXC) for processing by a server.

 o  Application Execution Controller (EXC) - Controls task execution
    for all the tasks in an application. Each application has its own
    EXC process, which starts up and controls the server processes needed
    to handle processing work for tasks.

                                  3

 

 o  Server Process (SP) - Carries out the high-level programming lan-
    guage routines or DCL routines that handle a task's processing work
    and database or file I/O. Programmers link their routines to the
    VAX ACMS-supplied main program to create customized servers for database
    access, computation and other functions.

 o  Queued Task Initiator (QTI) - Removes task elements from a task queue
    and initiates their execution in a specified application. Queued
    tasks are tasks placed in a queue for later execution. Queued tasks
    cannot collect input data, but otherwise are the same as any other
    VAX ACMS task.

 The VAX ACMS processes that monitor and control the run-time system
 are:

 o  VAX ACMS Application Central Controller (ACC) - Acts as the cen-
    tral control point for VAX ACMS run-time systems. The ACC starts
    and controls the Terminal Subsystem Controller, the QTI, the EXC,
    and the audit trail log. The ACC process must be started and run-
    ning on each computer system where VAX ACMS applications are used.

 o  Audit Trail Log (ATL) - Writes information about a running VAX ACMS
    system to the audit trail log file. The ATL keeps a record of when
    the VAX ACMS system starts and stops, when users log in, and when
    applications and tasks start and stop.

 o  Terminal Subsystem Controller (TSC) - Creates and controls the num-
    ber of active Command Processes (CPs) and assigns terminals to CPs.
    The TSC starts and stops CPs as needed, and controls which termi-
    nals can access VAX ACMS.

 o  Software Event Logger (SWL) - Records all ACMS internal software
    errors and event messages that occur during the execution of VAX
    ACMS application programs.

 Communications among these run-time processes can occur on a single
 computer system or between more than one computer in a VAXcluster sys-
 tem or DECnet network. For example, a Command Process (CP) on one com-
 puter system can initiate a task within an application on another com-
 puter system.

                                  4

 

 Application Management and Control

 Once an application is developed, the user moves that application into
 a production (real-use) environment. VAX ACMS provides support for VAX ACMS
 applications used in a production environment.

 VAX ACMS includes seven utilities for defining, monitoring and mod-
 ifying application management characteristics:

 o  VAX ACMSGEN - Modifies and displays VAX ACMS system parameters.

 o  Application Authorization Utility (AAU) - Authorizes applications
    to be installed.

 o  User Definition Utility (UDU) - Authorizes users to log in to VAX ACMS
    and assigns login displays, including default menus, to VAX ACMS
    users.

 o  Device Definition Utility (DDU) - Authorizes VAX ACMS terminals and,
    optionally, defines captive terminals to log in directly to VAX ACMS.

 o  Queue Manager (QUEMGR) - Creates and manages VAX ACMS task queues
    and queued task elements.

 o  Software Event Log Utility Program (SWLUP) - Creates reports of se-
    lected events recorded by the Software Event Logger.

 o  Audit Trail Report Utility (ATR) - Returns records of application
    and user activity.

 In addition to the utilities, VAX ACMS also provides users with the
 following additional support for application management and control:

 o  VAX ACMS Operator Commands - Perform standard operator functions
    such as starting and stopping the VAX ACMS system, the TSC (Ter-
    minal Subsystem Controller) process, the QTI process and ACMS ap-
    plications

 o  Command Procedures - Evaluate and modify the values of VMS and VAX
    ACMS system parameters, and VAX ACMS run-time process quotas

 Front-End/Back-End Processing (Client/Server Processing)

                                  5

 

 In VAX ACMS, terminal, menu, and other I/O functions are separated from
 database or file processing and computational functions. The termi-
 nal and menu functions are handled on the front-end of the transac-
 tion processing system, while task flow control, data processing, and
 computations are performed on the back-end of the system.

 The separation of functions in VAX ACMS (called the client/server model)
 can be implemented on a single node or on multiple nodes in a DECnet
 network. Because the VAX ACMS client/server model always provides sep-
 arate front and back ends, users can at any time off-load the front-
 end to another computer system without reprogramming the application
 code.

 The VAX ACMS Systems Interface (SI) lets users write front-end pro-
 grams, or agents, to support specialized devices such as bar-code read-
 ers and automatic teller machines.

 VAX ACMS includes support for failover in a distributed environment.
 If one VAX processor is not available to process a transaction, VAX ACMS
 can automatically route the transaction to another application run-
 ning on an available processor.

 Presentation Services

 Users select and run VAX ACMS tasks from menus. To create menus, VAX ACMS
 supports DECforms as its primary presentation service. In addition,
 VAX ACMS provides support for VAX TDMS and other presentation service
 products.

 VAX ACMS also provides support for other presentation service prod-
 ucts through the VAX ACMS Request Interface and Systems Interface. The
 Request Interface lets users use presentation services other than DEC-
 forms or TDMS for I/O functions limited to one user per process. The
 Systems Interface lets users use presentation services for single-user
 or multiple-user I/O functions.

 Database Management



                                  6

 

 VAX ACMS includes support in its definition language for starting and
 ending database transactions/recovery units through a database man-
 agement system. Data products supported include VAX Rdb for VMS (in-
 cluding SQL), RMS, and VAX DBMS.

 Using the DECdtm component of the VMS Operating System, VAX ACMS lets
 users coordinate operations on multiple recoverable resources (such
 as databases and files) within a single atomic transaction. Users can
 perform operations on multiple databases through a single transaction
 and ensure atomicity (that is, if the transaction fails, any changes
 made to databases, files, or VAX ACMS queues are rolled back to their
 previous state before the transaction started). Please note that RMS
 Journaling is required to support recoverable VAX ACMS queue opera-
 tions coordinated using DECdtm. RMS Journaling is a separate layered
 product, distinct from RMS, supplied with VMS.

 VAX ACMS applications can also access other data management products
 or file management systems that support the VMS calling standard.

 Data Dictionary

 VAX ACMS supports the VAX CDD/Plus data dictionary. VAX ACMS stores
 application definitions in VAX CDD/Plus directories and uses VAX CDD/Plus
 record definitions for its workspaces.

 Queuing

 Some VAX ACMS applications require that the data be collected and stored
 in a temporary storage area (queue) for the application to process at
 another time. The VAX ACMS queuing facility lets users create and man-
 age VAX ACMS task queues. ACMS queue services are used to place/remove
 tasks on/off ACMS task queues.

 Security

 VAX ACMS ensures that the user's data remains secure by giving the user
 control over which users have access to VAX ACMS. Using VMS and VAX ACMS
 authorization facilities users can:

 o  Authorize users to use VAX ACMS

                                  7

 

 o  Control terminals connecting to VAX ACMS

 o  Limit the applications a user can run

 o  Prevent unauthorized access to the operating system while running
    ACMS tasks

 VAX ACMS includes transaction security in the form of access control
 lists (ACLs) in the definition language. Whenever a user selects a trans-
 action, that user's VMS identifier is checked against the ACL defined
 for that transaction to determine if that user is allowed to execute
 that transaction.

 VAXcluster Environment/Availability

 In a VAXcluster environment, VAX ACMS applications support highly avail-
 able configurations that help avoid single points of system failure.

 VAX ACMS includes support for failover in a VAXcluster environment.
 If one VAXcluster processor is not available to process a transaction,
 VAX ACMS can automatically route the transaction to another applica-
 tion running on an available processor that shares the same data.

 VAX ACMS can improve the performance of a database management system
 in a VAXcluster environment by allowing the use of the client/server
 model to run database servers on a single processor.

 VAX ACMS Run-time Option

 The VAX ACMS Run-time Option is a subset of VAX ACMS, which lets users
 run existing VAX ACMS applications or programs and change application
 attributes (for example, menu definitions). The purpose of the Run-
 time Option is to support the execution of applications developed on
 a host machine using the development version of this product, and to
 run on production machines.

 VAX ACMS Remote Access Option



                                  8

 

 The VAX ACMS Remote Access Option is a subset of the Run-time Option
 and provides the ability to place users and the terminal I/O associ-
 ated with them on a separate VAX system, offloaded from the applica-
 tion VAX or VAXcluster.

 Documentation

 VAX ACMS includes a complete and comprehensive documentation set. In-
 troductory manuals explain VAX ACMS concepts and components to new users.
 Advanced guides describe, in task-oriented style, how to design, build
 and manage VAX ACMS applications. Complete reference information is
 also provided.

 Included with VAX ACMS documentation is a transaction processing case
 study that describes each step in the design, development, implemen-
 tation and testing of a sample reservations processing application.

 The VAX ACMS documentation (QA-079AA-GZ) set consists of the follow-
 ing manuals:

 VAX ACMS Getting Started

 Step-by-step tutorial for developing a simple VAX ACMS application us-
 ing VAX DECforms, VAX CDD/Plus, and an RMS file.

 VAX ACMS Installation Guide

 Description of installation requirements, step-by-step installation
 instructions, and post installation tasks.

 VAX ACMS Release Notes

 Specific information related to the most current version of VAX ACMS
 and material added too late for publication in other VAX ACMS docu-
 ments.

 VAX ACMS New Features manual

 Describes all the enhancements built into VAX ACMS, version 3.3.

 VAX ACMS Interoperability with IBM LU6.2 and CICS

                                  9

 

 Describes how ACMS works with the APPC/LU6.2 programming interface to
 communicate with IBM CICS applications.

 VAX ACMS Concepts and Design Guidelines

 Detailed description of VAX ACMS concepts and guidelines for design-
 ing a VAX ACMS application.

 VAX ACMS Writing Applications

 Description of how to write task, task group, application, and menu
 definitions using the Application Definition Utility (ADU).

 VAX ACMS Writing Server Procedures

 Description of how to write, debug, and run procedures for VAX ACMS
 applications, including procedures that access VAX Rdb/VMS, VAX DBMS,
 and RMS resource managers.

 VAX ACMS Systems Interface Programming

 Description of how to use Systems Interface (SI) Services to submit
 tasks to a VAX ACMS system from outside VAX ACMS.

 VAX ACMS ADU Reference Manual

 Reference information regarding commands, phrases, and clauses of the
 Application Definition Utility (ADU).

 VAX ACMS Managing Applications

 Description of how to authorize, install, run, and manage VAX ACMS ap-
 plications, and how to control the VAX ACMS system and its components.

 VAX ACMS AVERTZ Demo Guide

 Overview of the AVERTZ application, which is an online, running sam-
 ple that ships with the VAX ACMS kit.

 VAX ACMS Quick Reference Guide

 Complete list of VAX ACMS syntax with brief descriptions.

                                 10

 

 VAX ACMS Master Index

 Comprehensive listing of all index entries in the documentation set.

 A TP System Case Study

 Detailed look at a sample AVERTZ application with an emphasis on how
 users can use a suite of Digital products to develop a complete TP sys-
 tem. This manual shows how to design and develop a database and ap-
 plication for a fictional car rental company.

 VAX ACMS also includes two sample applications: AVERTZ which is based
 on the transaction processing requirements of a fictional car rental
 firm; and a Personnel Application from the VAX ACMS Getting Started
 tutorial.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 VAX, MicroVAX, VAXserver or VAXstation configuration as specified in
 the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.50.11-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS*

 For VAX ACMS

 o  VMS Operating System V5.4-1 - V5.5

 o  VAX CDD/Plus V4.2A - V4.3

 For VAX ACMS Run-time Option

 o  VMS Operating System V5.4-1 - V5.5

 For VAX ACMS Remote Access Option

 o  VMS Operating System V5.4-1 - V5.5

 o  DECnet-VAX V5.0 - V5.4-1

 *  Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 25.50.11-x) for avail-
    ability and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

                                 11

 

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Software Licenses:
    Development System: QL-079A*-**
    Run-time, Unlimited Use: QL-076A*-**
    Run-time, Concurrent Use: QL-076AA-3B
    Remote Access, Unlimited Use: QL-Y30A*-**
    Remote Access, Concurrent Use: QL-Y30AA-3B

 Software Media:
    Development System: QA-079A*-**
    Run-time: QA-076A*-**
    Remote Access: QA-Y30A*-**

 Software Documentation:
    Development System: QA-079AA-GZ
    Run-time: QA-076AA-GZ
    Remote Access: QA-Y30AA-GZ

 Software Product Services:
    Development System: QT-079A*-**
    Run-time: QT-076A*-**
    Remote Access: QT-Y30A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.







                                 12

 

 LICENSE MANAGEMENT FACILITY SUPPORT

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited and Con-
 current Use basis. Concurrent Use licensing enables a pre-specified
 number of users to use the product. Using this method of licensing,
 the price of the product depends on the number of licenses purchased
 for each node.

 With Concurrent Use licenses, the VMS License Management Facility checks
 to make sure that the number of simultaneous sign-ons does not exceed
 the number of Concurrent Use licenses puchased, where it is assumed
 that there is one license allocated for each simultaneous sign-on de-
 sired. LMF calculates this by assigning 100 license units to each li-
 cense. It then computes the total number of license units purchased
 (100 times the number of licenses purchased) and subtracts 100 for each
 simultaneous sign-on that occurs, until it reaches zero. At zero, LMF
 determines that no other users may log on until license units are freed
 up.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.







                                 13

 

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, ALL-IN-1, ACMS, CDD/Plus, CI, DEC, DECdtm,
    DECforms, DECnet, DECtp, DECtrace, MicroVAX, MicroVMS, VAX,
    VAX ACMS, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX C, VAX COBOl, VAX DATATRIEVE,
    VAX DBMS, VAX DIBOL, VAX FMS, VAX FORTRAN, VAX PASCAL,
    VAX RALLY, VAX Rdb/VMS, VAX TEAMDATA, VAXset, VAXcluster, VMS,
    VAXstation, and VAXserver are trademarks of Digital Equipment
    Corporation.


























                                 14
