 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DBMS, Version 4.3                   SPD 25.48.22
                (Database Management System)

 DESCRIPTION

 VAX DBMS is a multi-user, general purpose CODASYL-compliant database
 management system that runs under the VMS Operating System. VAX DBMS
 is used to access and administer databases ranging in complexity from
 simple hierarchies to complex networks with multi-level relationships.
 It supports full concurrent access in a multi-user environment with-
 out compromising the integrity and security of the user's databases.

 VAX DBMS is based upon the March, 1981 Working Document of the ANSI
 Data Definition Language Committee.

 Features

 o  Full concurrent access capabilities (storage, retrieval, update,
    and deletion) in a multi-user environment

 o  Record locking and journaling

 o  Automatic transaction and verb rollback

 o  Multiple database support (one or more databases per process)

 o  Two Phase Commit capability atomically commits or rolls back up-
    dates across multiple databases in one transaction (Optional -- Re-
    fer to SSA 25.48.22-x for details)

 o  Full VAXcluster support, including automatic recovery upon node fail-
    ure

 o  Integrated with VAX Common Data Dictionary/Plus (VAX CDD/Plus) fa-
    cility

 o  Schema, Subschema, Storage Schema, and Security Schema Data Def-
    inition Languages (DDLs)

                               DIGITAL                    March 1992

                                                         AE-L818W-TE

 

 o  Security audit logging of database and Security Schema access.

 o  FORTRAN Data Manipulation Language (FDML)

 o  COBOL DML statements supported by the VAX COBOL compiler

 o  Generic DML preprocessor for BASIC, BLISS, C, DIBOL, Pascal, PL/I
    and VAX Ada

 o  Callable interpretive interface for any VAX language that adheres
    to the VAX calling standard

 o  Automatic subschema definition extraction from the CDD/Plus for BA-
    SIC, BLISS, C, COBOL, DIBOL, MACRO, Pascal, PL/I, and VAX Ada when
    using the high-level call interface or generic DML preprocessor

 o  Easy-to-use utility command language (DBO)

 o  Database Restructuring Utility (DRU) provides the ability to change
    many database characteristics without unloading and reloading the
    database.

 o  Interactive Database Query Utility (DBQ) with video display of sub-
    schema structure diagrams on VT100, VT200, or VT300 compatible ter-
    minals

 o  On-line and incremental database verification including verifica-
    tion by set

 o  Full and incremental database backup with or without concurrent database
    users

 o  Full and incremental database restore of the entire database, or
    individual areas

 o  Ability to redo a sequence of committed transactions (roll forward)

 o  Initial Load utility; Unload utility for data extraction; function-
    ality for database restructuring with Unload/Load

 o  BATCH RETRIEVAL ready mode (database snapshots) for increased con-
    currency in large retrieval applications

 o  Space Area Management (SPAM) pages which improve database free-space
    search performance

                                  2

 

 o  Boolean record selection expression with index optimization on FIND
    and FETCH DML statements

 o  Data compression of data items and database key (DBKey) pointers

 o  Direct record access through the use of database key (DBKey) point-
    ers

 o  Automatic expansion of large records across multiple database pages

 o  Simple restructuring, including adding AREAS and initializing AR-
    EAS, without unloading and reloading a database

 o  Sorted sets implemented with B-trees or simple chains; prefix and
    suffix compression for sort keys with the B-tree implementation

 o  DECnet database access to provide full remote read/write access to
    non-redundant distributed databases.

 Data Definition

 VAX DBMS has a four-part data definition language. The schema DDL de-
 fines the logical structure of the database, the storage schema DDL
 defines the physical structure of the database, the subschema DDL de-
 fines application program views of the schema, and the security schema
 DDL defines access rights to database objects.

 The schema DDL is the only DDL that must be written. By default, the
 DDL compiler produces a default subschema, storage schema, and secu-
 rity schema for every schema it compiles.

 The schema DDL defines the records, sets, and areas composing the database.
 A record is a collection of data items. A set is a relationship be-
 tween records having one owner record and one or more member records
 in some specified order. An area is a logical and physical subdivi-
 sion of the database that contains records.

 The storage schema DDL defines the representation of storage records,
 storage sets, and storage areas (which are equivalent to VMS files).

                                  3

 

 It also defines the placement of records within the database, the stor-
 age set parameters, and the representation of data items within a stor-
 age record. Most database tuning is accomplished by changing the stor-
 age schema.

 The subschema DDL defines a logical subset of the database in terms
 of records, sets and realms (a collection of one or more areas). Many
 subschemas can be written to provide different views of the database
 for different application programs.

 The security schema DDL defines the access rights to all database ob-
 jects. DML statement access rights can be defined for each DML state-
 ment on areas, records, items, and sets.

 All database structure definitions are established and maintained by
 the DDL compiler and stored in the VAX Common Data Dictionary/Plus (CDD/Plus
 or CDD/Repository for VMS), where they can be retrieved by VAX DBMS
 Utilities, VAX COBOL and VAX DATATRIEVE.

 Data Manipulation

 Application programs must call the Database Control System (DBCS) for
 all database operations. The specific database operations supported
 are: CONNECT, DISCONNECT, ERASE, FETCH, FIND, GET, MODIFY, RECONNECT,
 and STORE for manipulating database records and sets; FREE and KEEP
 for saving and purging database currencies and keeplists; COMMIT, READY,
 and ROLLBACK for controlling the permanence in non distributed trans-
 actions; ALSO, EMPTY, MEMBER, OWNER, TENANT, NULL, and WITHIN condi-
 tions for testing the state of the database, currencies, and keeplists.
 A Boolean expression with EQ, NE, LE, LT, GT, GE, AND, OR, NOT, MATCHES,
 or CONTAINS operators can be used on the FIND and FETCH statements.

 Application programs written in COBOL and FORTRAN perform database op-
 erations with a set of Data Manipulation Language (DML) statements in-
 cluded in the source code. COBOL DML statements are compiled by the
 VAX COBOL compiler. FORTRAN DML statements are translated by the VAX DBMS
 FORTRAN DML Preprocessor into FORTRAN source code that is compiled by
 the VAX FORTRAN compiler. Application programs written in BASIC, BLISS,
 C, DIBOL, Pascal, PL/I, and VAX Ada can access a database through a
 generic DML preprocessor. DML statements can be included directly into

                                  4

 

 the program. The source file is then passed on to the appropriate host
 language compiler.

 Run-Time Environment (Integrity and Consistency Features)

 The Database Control System (DBCS) controls access to VAX DBMS databases.
 The DBCS ensures the integrity of user databases by automatically lock-
 ing records that have been modified, records representing currencies,
 and records on keeplists. Optionally, the DBA can request that all records
 read in a particular database be locked for the life of the database
 transaction. Users cannot modify data in records that are locked by
 another user. Moreover, users cannot read data that another user has
 modified but not yet committed. When a user process terminates or ex-
 ecutes a ROLLBACK or COMMIT operation, all locks are released. When
 a user process executes a COMMIT RETAINING operation, all record locks
 not in currency indicators or keeplists are released and all records
 locked for update are changed to read locks. Locking of entire areas
 can be used to improve performance in certain applications. The VMS
 lock manager services ($ENQ and $DEQ) are used for locking.

 All database changes between READY and COMMIT or ROLLBACK operations
 are recorded in a recovery-unit journal. When a user performs a COM-
 MIT operation, all database changes are made permanent. A ROLLBACK op-
 eration will undo all database changes.

 The DBCS automatically performs a ROLLBACK operation on any uncommit-
 ted database changes if a program error or system failure occurs. Recovery-
 unit journaling can be disabled by readying an AREA in BATCH UPDATE
 mode which can result in improved performance. A risk of disabling the
 recovery-unit journaling is that the database might be corrupted should
 a system failure occur.

 The BATCH RETRIEVAL ready mode, also called a snapshot, can be used
 by retrieval transactions that read many records, require a consis-
 tent view of the database, and do not handle deadlock conditions. A
 database must have snapshots allowed to enable transactions in BATCH
 RETRIEVAL mode; snapshots may be enabled per area.



                                  5

 

 Long-term after-images can optionally be saved and used by the DBO util-
 ity to recover from storage device or system software failures and is
 recommended strongly.

 VAXcluster Environment

 VAX DBMS databases can operate in a VAXcluster environment, thus al-
 lowing for concurrent, multiple-node database access. VAX DBMS auto-
 matically recovers the database if a processor in the VAXcluster fails
 and provides optional after-image journaling to further protect the
 integrity of the VAXcluster database.

 VAX DBMS uses the VMS distributed lock manager to synchronize cluster-
 wide updates to the database root file, to initiate the automatic re-
 covery process when a node fails, and to coordinate concurrent updates
 to the same database from processes running on different nodes. VAX-
 clusters offer higher availability to VAX DBMS databases in a prop-
 erly configured VAXcluster environment.

 Security Features

 VAX DBMS provides security on database objects via the security schema,
 on DBO commands via access control lists, on files via the VMS file
 protection features, and on metadata in the CDD/Plus dictionary via
 the CDD/Plus security features.

 Application programs access the database through a security schema.
 The security schema controls the access to areas, records, items, and
 sets for each DML statement. The security schema for a given user is
 controlled by the User Execution List (UEL), which is an access con-
 trol list. The UEL consists of user identification codes (UIC) and the
 security schema through which they are allowed access to the database.
 UELs are manipulated by the database administrator through the use of
 the DBO/PERMIT_ USER command.

 Access to DBO commands is controlled by an access control list for each
 DBO command. The Command Authorization Lists (CALs) are manipulated
 by the Database Administrator with the com- mand DBO/GRANT_COMMAND.
 There is a CAL for every DBO command except MONITOR, SHOW, and CON-
 VERT. There is no CAL for the CDD commands.

                                  6

 

 The DBCS runs in EXEC mode, securing its code and data structures from
 the user's user mode applications.

 VAX DBMS uses standard VMS file security (SYSTEM, OWNER, GROUP, WORLD)
 to protect database storage areas (files). An application program can
 only access records defined in its SUBSCHEMA. It is the responsibil-
 ity of the Database Administrator (DBA) to define storage areas and
 realms plus set up file protection and access control lists and se-
 curity schemas to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data.

 Metadata security and protection can be provided by preventing access
 to metadata definitions stored in the VAX Common Data Dictionary/Plus
 (CDD/Plus). The CDD supports a hierarchical security system based on
 access control lists. It is the responsibility of the DBA to define
 CDD access control lists to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive
 database definitions.

 Tracking and reporting of access to a secured database environment is
 provided through the DBO utility. Profiles for this security track-
 ing can be defined and activated for individual Security Schemas, as
 well as securable database commands. The result is an audit-trail of
 all secured database access for a particular database.

 Utilities

 Interactive DML Utility (DBQ)

 Provides on-line procedural database access capabilities by interac-
 tively processing generic Data Manipulation Language (DML) statements.

 o  Provides DISPLAY,EDIT, IF-THEN-ELSE, INITIALIZE, LOOP, MACRO, MOVE,
    SET, SHOW, PRINT, and SHIFT statements

 o  Allows DCL commands from within the image

 The current position in a subschema is optionally displayed graphi-
 cally (on a VT100, VT200, or VT300 compatible terminal) as the user
 navigates through the database.

 Database Operator Utility (DBO)

                                  7

 

 Provides the Database Administrator with all of the functions required
 to create, maintain, delete, and control VAX DBMS databases. It pro-
 vides the following major features:

 o  Creating, initializing, and deleting databases.

 o  Loading and unloading databases.

 o  Restructuring databases; RECALCing records into expanded areas.

 o  Controlling access to DBO commands and to the database through ACLs
    and security schemas.

 o  Reporting on VAX DBMS information in the VAX Common Data Dictio-
    nary/Plus.

 o  Extracting DDL information from the VAX Common Data Dictionary/Plus.

 o  Deleting DDL information in the VAX Common Data Dictionary/Plus.

 o  Verifying the integrity of internal database structures on-line.
    (Verification of the database is performed more efficiently on lightly
    loaded or inactive databases.)

 o  Modifying the contents of corrupted database storage areas. (This
    function is not recommended or required for normal use.)

 o  Producing formatted dumps of the database, AIJ, or RUJ files.

 o  Providing the spooling of after-image journal files by backing them
    up to another device.

 o  Producing full and incremental database backup, on-line and off-
    line.

 o  Restoring the database from backup and long-term journals.

 o  Controlling and displaying the status of the DBCS Monitor process.

 o  Providing for orderly database shutdown on a single node or across
    a VAXcluster.

 o  Creating static analysis of database space usage (DBO/ANALYZE) on-
    or off-line.

                                  8

 

 o  On-line or replay of DBMS statistics in the form of a histogram,
    a columnar chart, a time plot on a single node basis for active databases,
    or areas (DBO/SHOW STATISTICS). Statistics include: summary I/O,
    database verb, database index, virtual memory usage, summary lock-
    ing, summary after-image journal, summary page I/O, I/O stall time,
    stall messages, and transaction durations.

 o  Generating a User Work Area (UWA) for application programs using
    the callable interpretive interface.

 Database Restructuring Utility (DRU)

 Provides the ability to change many database characteristics without
 unloading and reloading the database. It provides the following ma-
 jor features:

 o  Removing areas from record WITHIN clauses.

 o  Changing set insertion and retention modes to AUTOMATIC MANDATORY
    or AUTOMATIC FIXED.

 o  Specifying that duplicates are not allowed on sorted sets.

 o  Changing the sort key and sort order on sorted sets.

 o  Changing set ORDER and MODE clauses.

 o  Changing B-tree node size, reset the B-tree fill factor, and for
    SYSTEM-owned set, change the B-tree location.

 o  Remove items from the database that are no longer needed.

 o  Modify the data type and data length of items already existing in
    the database.

 Product Assistance Facilities

 VAX DBMS provides extensive help facilities for the interactive DML
 Utility (DBQ), the DML precompiler(DML), the Database Operator Util-
 ity (DBO), and the DDL compiler. The help files contain all necessary
 information on the use of each of these facilities.

                                  9

 

 VAX DATATRIEVE provides an optional interface to VAX DBMS database struc-
 tures. This provides the VAX DBMS user with a high-level, nonproce-
 dural query and report generating facility.

 Components

 DDL Compiler (DDL) - Used by the Database Administrator (DBA) to cre-
 ate and maintain database structure definitions including records, sets,
 areas, and realms in the VAX Common Data Dictionary/Plus. It compiles
 the schema, subschema, storage schema, and security schema DDLs, and
 generates default subschemas, storage schemas, and security schemas.
 The VMS DCL command "DDL" invokes the compiler.

 Database Control System (DBCS) - Controls access to VAX DBMS databases.
 The DBCS is a shareable image that is linked with any application pro-
 gram that accesses the database.

 FORTRAN DML Preprocessor (FDML) - Preprocesses FORTRAN DML applica-
 tion programs. It translates FORTRAN DML statements into FORTRAN calls
 to the DBCS and data definition statements and passes the complete FOR-
 TRAN source program to the VAX FORTRAN Compiler.

 Generic DML Preprocessor - Preprocesses application programs written
 in BASIC, BLISS, C, DIBOL, Pascal, PL/I, and VAX Ada. It converts DML
 statements into calls to the DBCS and passes the complete source pro-
 gram to the host language compiler.

 Database Monitor Process - Controls all interprocess database commu-
 nication and recovery.

 Database Recovery Process (DBR) - Provides the database recovery ca-
 pability.

 Interactive DML Utility (DBQ) - Provides interactive DML access to any
 VAX DBMS database. The VMS DCL command "MCR SYS$SYSTEM:DBQ" invokes
 the utility.

 Database Operator Utility (DBO) - Used by the DBA to create, maintain,
 delete, and control all VAX DBMS databases. The VMS DCL command "DBO"
 invokes the utility.

                                 10

 

 Database Restructuring Utility (DRU) - Enables the DBA to make user-
 data dependent changes to the database.

 DBMSERVER - Provides access to local databases for remote DECnet users.

 Installation Verification Procedures (IVP) - Verifies the correct in-
 stallation of all VAX DBMS components and builds the PARTS database
 that is used in examples throughout the documentation.

 Demonstration (DEMO) - A demonstration package which uses the PARTS
 database.

 Limits and Parameters

 o  Maximum length of a sort key is 255 bytes.

 o  Maximum number of sort key items is limited by the total sort key
    length.

 o  Maximum length of a calc key is 32K bytes.

 o  Maximum number of calc key items is limited by the total calc key
    length.

 o  Maximum length of database object name is 31 bytes.

 o  Other schema size (complexity) parameters are limited by machine
    address space and disk space.

 o  Minimum database page size is 512 bytes.

 o  Maximum database page size is 32K bytes.

 o  Maximum number of pages per area is 2**32 pages.

 o  Maximum number of areas (files) per database is 32K files (VMS re-
    sources and typical SYSGEN parameters will constrain this to be much
    lower).

 o  Maximum length of a storage record, including DBMS overhead, is 32K
    bytes.

 o  Minimum interval between SPAM pages is 256 pages.

 o  Maximum interval between SPAM pages is 64K pages.

                                 11

 

 o  Maximum number of concurrent users per database is 2032 (not all
    database maintenance functions can be performed efficiently with
    large numbers of active users).

 Optional VAX DBMS Run-Time Only Environment

 A Run-Time Only version of VAX DBMS is available. It provides all fea-
 tures and facilities except the DDL compiler, the FORTRAN Data Manip-
 ulation Language (FDML) preprocessor, and the Generic DML preproces-
 sor. The purpose of the Run-Time Only version is to support the ex-
 ecution of applications on one machine that have been developed on other
 machines using the development version of the product. Program devel-
 opment is not supported under the Run-Time Only version.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 25.48.22-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 VMS Operating System

 Layered Products

 VAX CDD/Plus or CDD/Repository for VMS

 Refer to the System Support Addendum for availability and required ver-
 sions of prerequisite/optional software (SSA 25.48.22-x).

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 For Development Only:

 Software Licenses: QL-899A*-**
 Software Media: QA-899A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-899AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-899A*-**

 For Run-time Only:

                                 12

 

 Software Licenses: QL-915A*-**
 Software Media: QA-915A*-**
 Software Documentation: QA-915AA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-915A*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on licenses, ser-
    vices and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.


























                                 13

 

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility and
 allows Development and Runtime licenses on the same cluster.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the VMS Operating System documentation set.

 For more information on Digital's licensing policies, contact your lo-
 cal Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 eightpointss

 [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, DECnet, DBMS, ACMS, DATATRIEVE, VAX C,
     VAX COBOL, VAX BASIC VAX DIBOL, VAX Ada VAX, VAXcluster, VAXs-
     tation, VAXserver, VAXft, MicroVAX and VMS are trademarks of
     Digital Equipment Corporation.









                                 14
