 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1     SPD 27.55.06

           DESCRIPTION

           VAX DOCUMENT is a style-based, batch-oriented, document com-
           position system. It is designed to aid VMS users in the pro-
           duction of single manuals, large documentation sets, or spec-
           ifications, and it supports hardcopy and online output. VAX
           DOCUMENT runs on a wide range of Digital Equipment Corpo-
           ration configurations, including VAXclusters. It can be used
           from any of Digital's standard terminals, and it can cre-
           ate files for hardcopy output to any Digital line printer
           or laser printer, or Bookreader files for online viewing on
           a DECwindows workstation.

           VAX DOCUMENT provides a complete, high-end documentation prod-
           uct that automates the production of large, format-intensive,
           technical documentation - from the first entry of written
           material to the final output of formatted hardcopy or on-
           line documentation. VAX DOCUMENT is designed for use by mem-
           bers of the team of people who contribute to a technical doc-
           ument during its life cycle; engineers, writers, editors,
           or final production specialists. Facilities are provided to
           create, maintain, revise, format, and print complex tech-
           nical documents efficiently. This provides greater control
           over the entire documentation process while reducing time-
           to-market and costs.







                                    DIGITAL             January 1992

                                                         AE-KN49H-TE

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


           Features

           Generic Markup Language

           VAX DOCUMENT uses a device-independent generic markup lan-
           guage for entering source text and markup instructions into
           ASCII text files. Using any VMS editor, the writer creates
           a documentation source file, enters the text, and inserts
           markup commands (tags) that label the text elements. Text
           elements determine the structure of the document and refer
           to such things as headers, lists, or tables.

           The markup tags have no specific formatting information. VAX
           DOCUMENT stores the formatted information in a separate file
           that is used when the documentation source file is processed.

           Markup tags enable the writer to include graphic files in
           the final output document. VAX DOCUMENT supports Sixel graphic
           files for the LN03 or LN03 PLUS printers and PostScript[R] graphic
           files for the LPS40 or LN03R printers. PostScript graphic
           files must conform to the Encapsulated PostScript File For-
           mat published by Adobe Systems Incorporated.

           The VAX Language-Sensitive Editor can be used in conjunc-
           tion with VAX DOCUMENT to simplify the creation of documen-
           tation source files and to debug the markup code interac-
           tively.

           Multiple Document Designs and Styles

           VAX DOCUMENT supports a variety of document types and de-
           signs. The document type refers to the structure and text
           elements associated with a particular document, for exam-
           ple a user manual, military specification, or letter. A de-
           sign denotes a variation in the style of a document type and
           refers to such elements as running heads, running feet, and
           the typefaces and sizes for titles, headings, and notes. VAX
           DOCUMENT provides document types and designs for:



                                       2

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


              SOFTWARE - The SOFTWARE document type can be used for pro-
              ducing user manuals containing software-specific infor-
              mation. This document type provides many software-specific
              features such as: a set of tags to draw keypad diagrams,
              a set of tags to format system messages, and a structured
              set of tags (called templates) to document software com-
              mands, routines, and programming language statements. VAX
              DOCUMENT also provides a design for specifications, as
              well as designs that are similar to those that Digital
              uses to produce its own documentation.

              MILITARY SPECIFICATIONS - The MILSPEC document type can
              be used for producing military specifications according
              to military standards. It includes a front page with a
              title and subtitle, a two-column list of signatures, and
              a listing of information about the specification.

              A design is provided to produce documents requiring se-
              curity classifications, numbering of figures and tables
              by section number, 20 heading levels, one- to four-line
              running titles, single-line running feet, and the abil-
              ity to use proportionally spaced fonts within code ex-
              amples. This design is available in double-spaced for-
              mat for draft documents.

              MANUALS - The MANUAL document type can be used for doc-
              umenting chapter-oriented material such as a book. VAX
              DOCUMENT provides designs for primer, guide, and refer-
              ence manuals.

              OVERHEADS - The OVERHEADS document type lets the user pro-
              duce overhead slides for transparencies or camera-ready
              masters for 35mm slides. This document type provides fea-
              tures specific to presentation slides, such as automatic
              numbering of slides, title, topic, running heads and feet,
              and the capability to control the size of text.





                                       3

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


              LETTERS - The LETTER document type can be used for pro-
              ducing a personal or business letter, or interoffice memos.
              The doctype includes markup tags for an inside and out-
              side address, salutation, closing, and enclosures.

              ARTICLES - The ARTICLE document type provides many tags
              specific to articles, such as author information, back
              notes, bibliography reference sections, and an acknowl-
              edgment section. The design is in two-column format in
              8 1/2 inch x 11 inch page size.

              REPORTS - The REPORT document type provides features use-
              ful for producing chapter-oriented material (such as a
              book) or nonchapter-oriented material (such as a report
              or a study). It includes a front page with lines for sign-
              off signatures, outlining tags, and the capability to con-
              trol numbered or unnumbered heads, running heads and run-
              ning feet, and sequential or chapter-oriented page num-
              bering. Designs are provided for two-column text and for
              text that uses the full page width.

              ONLINE Doctypes - The online doctypes provide features
              to support the creation of online documentation to be viewed
              with the DECwindows Bookreader. VAX DOCUMENT supports the
              BOOKREADER destination and includes the following online
              doctypes:

                 MANUAL.ONLINE
                 SOFTWARE.ONLINE
                 MILSPEC.ONLINE

              Note: VAX DOCUMENT offers the online MILSPEC doctype that
              emulates DoD standards on the Bookreader. This doctype
              is not a DoD standard, but only an online representation
              of the above standards.

           Customizable Document Designs and Styles




                                       4

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


           The system administrator or book designer can customize the
           document types and/or designs provided with VAX DOCUMENT.
           Although the user cannot change the fundamental layout of
           most text elements, a variety of design parameters can be
           changed. These include:

           o  Parameters that control basic page dimensions

           o  Fonts for text elements

           o  Vertical spacing around text elements

           o  Rule thickness

           o  Default text for element identifiers

           In addition, the positioning of certain text elements, such
           as figure captions, can be changed.

           Refer to the VAX DOCUMENT documentation for a complete list
           of Digital supported modifications to document types and de-
           signs.

           Page Composition and Pagination Software

           VAX DOCUMENT provides a powerful and sophisticated text for-
           matter. These capabilities include:

           o  Automatic numbering of headings, sections, lists, sub-
              lists, chapters, appendices

           o  Automatic pagination with page numbering

           o  Running headers and footers

           o  Footnotes

           o  Hyphenation and justification (right-justified or ragged-
              right)

           o  Complex multi-page tables and figures

           o  Multi-column output

           o  Horizontal rules, revision (change) bars, and update pages

                                       5

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


           o  Automatic generation of table of contents and index

           o  Automatic cross referencing

           o  Kerning and variable leading

           o  Full Multi-National Character Set

           o  Formatting of complex mathematical equations; from sim-
              ple in-line equations to complex matrices

           Complete Bookbuilding Facilities

           VAX DOCUMENT contains software for processing a set of files
           to build an entire book, including a table of contents and
           index. The information required to build a book is contained
           in a user-created generic markup file that lists the names,
           the location, and the sequence of all the files.

           High Quality Output

           VAX DOCUMENT can be used to produce high-quality output with
           merged text and graphics for printing on the LN03, LN03 PLUS,
           LN03R, LPS20, LPS40, the DEClaser 1000, 2000, 3200, and 3500
           family of printers, or for online viewing on a DECwindows
           workstation.

           PostScript output is produced by taking advantage of the fonts
           resident in the LN03R and LPS40 printers.

           Fonts for the LN03 and LN03 PLUS printers are available from
           the DCS Library.

           Monospaced Output

           VAX DOCUMENT can produce output for printing or displaying
           on any Digital character-cell terminal and monospaced line
           printer.

           Enhanced HELP Capabilities

           VAX DOCUMENT includes DCL HELP for SDML tags and context-
           sensitive SDML Help in LSE.

                                       6

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


           Sophisticated Art-Generating Capabilities

           VAX DOCUMENT supports the creation of graphics for compound
           documents and online documentation using the VAX DOCUMENT
           graphics editor. The VAX DOCUMENT graphics editor runs on
           a DECwindows workstation allowing text and graphics to be
           created and maintained separately. The graphics editor in-
           cludes the following features:

           o  A DECwindows-based user interface to a comprehensive set
              of object-oriented graphics creation and editing func-
              tions.

           o  Full color capabilities.

           o  Screen capture and annotation.

           o  Viewer capability for rapid scanning of graphics files.

           o  Can submit graphics for hardcopy printing or inclusion
              in online documents.

           o  Provides a user-extendable clip-art library.

           o  The graphics editor can create the following types of file
              images:

                 CDA DDIF images (import and export)
                 Sixel (import and export)
                 Bookreader format (import and export)
                 PostScript (export)
                 Xbitmap (import)

           VAX DOCUMENT enhancements include:

           o  Support of blank-page inserting for hardcopy printing on
              duplex devices.

           o  Support of ISO Latin-1 character set.


                                       7

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


           o  Support for documentation produced in 12 languages, in-
              cluding language-specific hyphenation and index sorting.
              Text generated tags are also language specific (words such
              as "Chapter" or "Index"). Languages include Danish, Finnish,
              Swedish, Dutch, French, Canadian-French, German, Span-
              ish, Portuguese, Italian, Norwegian, and English.

           o  Support for monospaced PostScript fonts to complement avail-
              able sizes for proportional text fonts.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and/or configuration as specified in the System
           Support Addendum (SSA 27.55.06-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           VMS Operating System

           VMS DECwindows (included with the VMS Operating System)

              VMS DECwindows must be installed to use the VAX DOCUMENT
              Graphics Editor and associated graphics components.

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.55.06-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
           dows.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           Software Licenses: QL-VEEA*-**
           Software Media: QA-VEEA*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-VEEAA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-VEEA*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.



                                       8

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use plus Personal Use and Concurrent Use basis.

           Each Personal Use license allows one identified individual
           to use the layered product.

           Each Concurrent Use License allows any one individual at a
           time to use the layered product.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.








                                       9

 



           VAX DOCUMENT, Version 2.1                   SPD 27.55.06


           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [R]   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems
               Incorporated.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CDA, CI, DEC, DEClaser, DECwindows,
               LN03, LN03 PLUS, MicroVAX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAX
               DOCUMENT, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are
               trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.




























                                      10
