 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  OpenVMS POSIX, Version 1.1              SPD 34.82.02

 DESCRIPTION

 Note: Digital bases a great deal of software development on national
 and international standards. To underscore this commitment to soft-
 ware standards, Digital has revised the name of the VMS Operating Sys-
 tem. OpenVMS VAX is the new title for the VMS software that runs on
 Digital's VAX processors. Accordingly, VMS POSIX has changed to Open-
 VMS POSIX. All references to VMS POSIX in this SPD should be construed
 as OpenVMS POSIX.

 VMS POSIX is a cornerstone of VMS open systems capabilities. VMS POSIX
 Version 1.1 extends the support for POSIX standards and draft stan-
 dards offered in VMS POSIX Version 1.0 to include the X/Open[TM] BASE
 specifications defined in the X/Open Portability Guide Issue 3 (XPG3).

 POSIX (Portable Operating System Interface for Computing Environments)
 and XPG3 define a set of interface standards for various parts of an
 operating system. Both provide a comprehensive set of standards, draft
 standards, and specifications that support interoperability and porta-
 bility of applications at the source-code level. Because of the con-
 sistency they afford applications at the operating system level, the
 POSIX standards and XPG3 specifications are essential underpinnings
 of open systems computing environments.

 The POSIX standard development effort is sponsored by the Institute
 of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). As individual POSIX stan-
 dards are approved, organizations such as the International Organi-
 zation for Standardization (ISO) are also embracing them. XPG3 has been
 developed by X/Open, which is an independent consortium of computer


                               DIGITAL                     July 1992

                                                         AE-PHPUC-TE

 

 systems manufacturers; XPG3 specifies a comprehensive applications in-
 terface that includes POSIX 1003.1-1988 as well as an additional set
 of de facto and formal standards.

 VMS POSIX includes support for the standards and draft standards for
 the POSIX system application programming interface (POSIX 1003.1), POSIX
 shell and utilities (1003.2), and real-time programming (1003.4). VMS
 POSIX also supports the XPG3 BASE specifications - internationalized
 system calls and functions, commands and utilities, and the C language.
 POSIX 1003.1 has been approved as a final standard. POSIX 1003.2 and
 1003.4 are mature drafts that are currently being considered and eval-
 uated by the standards community. (For a listing of the specific stan-
 dards supported by VMS POSIX, refer to the VMS POSIX Supported Stan-
 dards and Components section.)

 User Environments

 o  Program Development Environment

    The program development environment for VMS POSIX allows the use
    of tools from both the VMS development environment and the VMS POSIX
    environment. Program developers who choose to work at DCL level can
    use the VMS program development environment tools, including the
    VAX C compiler, the VMS Linker, and VMS Debugger, as well as ap-
    plication building tools included in VAXset. Program developers who
    choose to work at the VMS POSIX shell level can use the POSIX en-
    vironment defined in P1003.2 and XPG3, including c89 (for linking
    and compiling programs), make (for building applications), and ar
    (for archiving object modules). UNIX users will also welcome the
    inclusion of the ctags utility for building an index of identifiers
    from C source programs.

 o  Interactive User Environment

    The interactive user environment for VMS POSIX provides the user
    with a set of UNIX(R)-like commands and utilities that include func-
    tions similar to DCL (the command ls is equivalent to the DCL DI-
    RECTORY command), in addition to functions unavailable in the DCL
    environment.

                                  2

 

 o  End User Environment (Running POSIX and XPG3 Programs)

    VMS POSIX programs are run from either DCL level or the VMS POSIX
    shell. A captive account can also be created, in which a user who
    accesses the system is limited to running one or more POSIX or XPG3
    applications.

 POSIX Standards

 o  POSIX 1003.1

    POSIX 1003.1 is an approved standard, adopted by the IEEE and en-
    dorsed by X/Open, ANSI, and ISO. It is the standard most commonly
    supported by open system vendors today.

    POSIX 1003.1 defines a standard for basic system services on an op-
    erating system and describes how system services can be used by POSIX
    and XPG3 applications. These services allow an application to per-
    form operations such as process creation and execution, file sys-
    tem access, and I/O device management.

 o  POSIX 1003.2

    POSIX 1003.2 is not yet a formal standard, but is close to formal
    approval. It provides both a callable and interactive interface to
    shell and utility services.

    The 1003.2-based interactive interface to VMS POSIX is a set of UNIX-
    like commands and utilities. The VMS POSIX command language inter-
    preter (shell) has many of the functions and features of the Korn
    Shell. These commands and utilities include those that provide func-
    tions similar to DCL in addition to functions unavailable in the
    DCL environment. For example, the VMS POSIX shell supports the func-
    tion of "pipes," which allow the output of one command to become
    the input of a subsequent command. The VMS POSIX interactive in-
    terface also includes a group of complex utilities (such as lex,
    yacc, and awk), C programming utilities, and a text editor (vi).

    VMS POSIX 1003.2 support also includes a set of callable interfaces
    for executing shell commands, compiling and executing regular ex-
    pressions, and performing pattern matching.

                                  3

 

 o  POSIX 1003.4

    VMS POSIX also implements draft 9 of the POSIX 1003.4 Standard for
    Real-time Extensions. For applications that have real-time comput-
    ing requirements, these extensions provide support for such func-
    tions as enhanced interprocess communication, scheduling and mem-
    ory management control, and asynchronous I/O operations.

 XPG3 BASE Specifications

 o  XPG3 Internationalized System Calls and Functions

    Developers can readily internationalize applications using standards-
    based functionality provided by XPG3. Applications that use XPG3
    internationalization features - including catopen(), catclose(),
    catgets(), and nl_langinfo()  - can be adapted at runtime to dis-
    play in a user's native language; no recompiling or relinking is
    required. The system manager may set a default linguistic environ-
    ment; individual users may override this default and set their own
    linguistic environment from within the VMS POSIX shell.

    VMS POSIX V1.1 contains the locale for American English; users can
    build their own locales for other languages. Examples of other lo-
    cales are provided in POSIX$EXAMPLES.

 o  XPG3 Commands and Utilities

    XPG3 provides a larger set of commands than POSIX 1003.2 with the
    additional ability to handle correctly any commands that include
    characters from international character sets. POSIX 1003.2 commands
    and utilities need to work only with the ASCII character set. XPG3
    extends this requirement: commands and utilities must also work with
    international character sets. This means that users can be assured
    that international character sets (other than 7-bit ASCII) will be
    correctly displayed on the terminal.

    VMS POSIX has taken advantage of certain implementation-specific
    opportunities in XPG3. For example, the -o option to the lp com-
    mand (equivalent to the DCL PRINT command) allows users to spec-
    ify a list of print options (equivalent to DCL qualifiers). As an
    argument to the -o option, users can specify any DCL PRINT command

                                  4

 

    qualifier. Thus, users can benefit from the full complement of print
    capabilities available in VMS.

 o  C Language

    XPG3 requires additions to the ANSI C run-time library to support
    internationalization features, including the ctype (character type)
    functions, string-manipulation functions, and formatted input and
    output functions. VMS POSIX includes these enhanced C language func-
    tions to accommodate internationalization requirements.

    VMS POSIX includes support for internationalized regular expres-
    sion match and compile functions, native language message handling
    functions, and native language versions of the error handling func-
    tions.

    VMS POSIX also adds table creation/search/deletion functions for
    linear tables, hash tables, and tree structured tables, as well as
    mathematical functions.

 VMS POSIX Supported Standards and Components

 The following list summarizes the formal and draft POSIX standards and
 components of the XPG3 BASE specification implemented by VMS POSIX:

 o  POSIX IEEE Std. 1003.1-1988 (NIST, FIPS 151-1)

 o  POSIX IEEE Std. 1003.1-1990 (ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990(E))

 o  Portions of POSIX 1003.1a, draft 5 and symbolic links and associ-
    ated functions (symlink, readlink, and so on) from P1003.1a, draft
    4

 o  Callable functions from POSIX 1003.2, draft 10, Appendix B

 o  All system interfaces not defined as "optional" that are contained
    in Volumes 1 and 2 of XPG3, and in the chapters on International-
    ization in Volume 3.

 o  Shell and Utilities from POSIX 1003.2, draft 10 and POSIX 1003.2a,
    draft 5

 o  Commands and Utilities from Volume 2 of XPG3

                                  5

 

 o  POSIX 1003.4, draft 9, except for direct (non-buffered) I/O, DAT-
    LOCK, and TXTLOCK for memory locking, and executable access to shared
    memory

 VMS POSIX Supported Utilities

 VMS POSIX includes support for the following POSIX 1003.2 and XPG3 util-
 ities:

 o  All of the "Mandatory" utilities

 o  Software Development Utilities, make and ar

 o  C Development Utilities, c89, yacc, and lex

 o  The internationalization utilities: locale, gencat, and iconv

 o  The lp, lpstat, and cancel utilities

 o  The egrep utility

 o  FORTRAN asa Development Utility

 o  Shell extensions and some utilities from the User Portability Ex-
    tension (UPE), 1003.2a

 VMS POSIX Support for Draft POSIX Standards

 POSIX is comprised of a number of standards. The only formal standards
 to date are POSIX 1003.1 for basic system interfaces and POSIX 1003.3.1,
 the test assertions a vendor must pass to claim conformance to POSIX
 1003.1. Draft standards, such as POSIX 1003.2 and POSIX 1003.4, which
 are implemented in VMS POSIX, are not formal standards. They are work-
 ing documents that will evolve over time before becoming final stan-
 dards.

 VMS POSIX implements the draft standards for POSIX 1003.2 (draft 10)
 and POSIX 1003.4 (draft 9) to allow customers to start to use and be-
 come familiar with these standards in advance of formal standards ap-
 proval.

                                  6

 

 To assist customers in migrating to final versions of approved stan-
 dards, future VMS POSIX documentation will include information describ-
 ing the differences between draft and final standards. It should be
 noted that because draft standards are working documents and not for-
 mal standards, Digital will support the use of a given draft standard
 only until the functionality provided by that draft is superseded in
 a new version of VMS POSIX. Draft standards are continually evolving,
 often in an incompatible way, and are often too unstable for Digital
 to offer the levels of backward compatibility and formal support for
 older versions to which VMS customers are accustomed.

 POSIX and XPG3 Conformance and Certification

 VMS POSIX conforms to the POSIX 1003.1-1990 standard as specified by
 ISO/IEC 9945-1, to the 1003.1-1988 version of the POSIX standard, and
 to the XPG3 BASE specifications. The POSIX standard requires that sup-
 pliers who claim conformance provide a conformance document that de-
 scribes how the supplier implements the standard. This is the only proof
 of conformance required by the IEEE.

 In the United States, the National Institute of Standards and Tech-
 nology (NIST) has developed the POSIX Conformance Test Suite or PCTS.
 The PCTS tests for conformance to NIST's Federal Information Process-
 ing Standard (FIPS 151-1), which is based on POSIX 1003.1-1988. VMS
 POSIX conforms to the POSIX 1003.1-1988 standard as required by the
 FIPS 151-1. POSIX 1003.1 is the only POSIX standard for which any kind
 of verification exists. (Because POSIX 1003.2 and 1003.4 are draft stan-
 dards, no formal method of testing conformance to them yet exists.)
 VMS POSIX has been tested and granted a certificate of validation for
 FIPS 151-1 by NIST.

 Software vendors whose products implement XPG3 BASE specifications can
 apply to X/Open for the right to display the X/Open BASE brand. The
 X/Open BASE brand identifies that a system fulfills the comprehensive
 and stringent set of X/Open requirements by:





                                  7

 

 o  Implementing the minimum set of components required to create the
    XPG3 Common Applications Environment. This set of XPG3 BASE com-
    ponents consists of the internationalized system calls and func-
    tions, commands and utilities, and the C language as implemented
    on a specific hardware platform.

 o  Passing those portions of the Verification Suite for X/Open (VSX3)
    that test the implementation of these XPG3 BASE components. Com-
    ponents must pass a series of more than 5000 tests in VSX to earn
    the X/Open BASE Brand.

 VMS POSIX has also passed the VSX3 test suite and has been branded by
 X/Open as conforming to the XPG3 BASE specifications.

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 34.82.01-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 o  VMS Operating System

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 34.82.01-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION:

 Software Media: QA-GXX**-H*
 Software Documentation: QA-GXX**-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-GXX**-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 Documentation:




                                  8

 

 The VMS POSIX documentation set includes the IEEE standards. Customers
 can order the VMS POSIX documentation separately or with the IEEE stan-
 dards. At the request of the IEEE, the IEEE standards are not sepa-
 rately orderable from Digital.

 The seven-volume XPG3 documentation set can be ordered directly from
 X/Open. See the VMS POSIX Version 1.1 cover letter for specific or-
 dering information.

 Online documentation:

 The following manuals in the VMS POSIX documentation set are avail-
 able in PostScript(R) and ASCII text format on line; subscribers to the
 CDROM also have access to these manuals in Bookreader format:

 o  X/Open Conformance Statement - Questionnaire

 o  POSIX Conformance Document for VMS

 o  VMS POSIX Compliance Information for P1003.2/D10

 o  VMS POSIX Compliance Information for P1003.4/D9

 o  VMS POSIX Release Notes

 Note: VMS POSIX Release Notes is not available in PostScript format.
 The IEEE standards are available in hardcopy only.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 The right-to-use VMS POSIX is included as part of the VMS V5.5 and V5.5-
 1 license.



                                  9

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 (R)  PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorpo-
    rated.

 (R)  UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories,
    Inc.

 [TM]X/Open is a trademark of X/Open Company Limited.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DEC, MicroVAX, TK, VAX, VAX C, VAX-
    cluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXset, VAXstation, and VMS are
    trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

















                                 10
 
