 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VMS Operating System, Version 5.5      SPD
           25.01.35

           DESCRIPTION[*]

           VMS is a general-purpose multiuser operating system that sup-
           ports VAX, MicroVAX, VAXstation, and VAXserver series com-
           puters in both development and production environments. VMS
           can be tuned to perform well in a wide variety of applica-
           tions, including compute-intensive, Input/Output (I/O)-intensive,
           real-time, and combinations of those and other environments.
           (Actual performance depends on the type of VAX computer, avail-
           able physical memory, and the number and type of disk and
           tape drives on the system.)

           VMS has well-integrated networking, distributed computing,
           multiprocessing, and windowing capabilities. VMS contains
           extensive features that promote ease-of-use, improve the pro-
           ductivity of programmers, and facilitate system management.

           VMS also supports a large number of industry standards, fa-
           cilitating application portability and interoperability.

           _________________
         [*] "Licensee agrees to only execute Display PostScript[R] on
             those Digital computer systems identified as licensed sys-
             tems in this Software Product Description, and that in any
             event licensee agrees not to make use of the software di-
             rectly or indirectly, to print bitmap images with print
             resolutions greater than 150 DPI, or to generate fonts or
             typefaces for use other than with the Digital licensed sys-
             tem." (Terms and Conditions for Display PostScript can be
             found in Appendix C of this Software Product Description

             (SPD).)

                                    DIGITAL            November 1991

                                                         AE-HQ86L-TE

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           User Environment

           Users can access VMS by using the English-like Digital Com-
           mand Language (DCL), the command language for VMS that is
           supplied with the system. DCL commands take the form of a
           command name followed by parameters and qualifiers. DCL com-
           mands provide information about the system, initiate sys-
           tem utilities, and initiate user programs. VMS prompts users
           to enter required DCL parameters, making it easy for novice
           users to use.

           Users can enter DCL commands at a terminal or include them
           in command procedures and can run command procedures inter-
           actively or submit them to a batch queue for deferred ex-
           ecution.

           Information on DCL and VMS Utilities is available through
           online Help. Online Help includes summary operational in-
           formation on all aspects of system operation.

           A number of tools and utilities are integrated into the VMS
           Operating System. This section briefly describes some of these
           tools and utilities.

           Text processing - The Extensible VAX Editor (EVE), one of
           several text editors supplied by Digital, allows users to
           insert, change, and delete text quickly. Written in the VAX
           Text Processing Utility Language (VAXTPU), EVE is a full-
           screen editor that allows users to scroll through text on
           a terminal screen. EVE provides an EDT-style keypad, allow-
           ing users of EDT to transition to EVE easily.

           Mail facility - The Mail facility allows users to send mes-
           sages to any other user on the system. Multinode operation
           is available if DECnet-VAX is installed and licensed on each
           participating node.





                                       2

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Command-level programming - Command-level programming al-
           lows users to create special files called command procedures
           that contain a series of DCL commands. When users start a
           command procedure, the system processes the commands in the
           command procedure. Users can also use special DCL commands
           to assign symbolic names, evaluate numerical and logical ex-
           pressions, accept parameters, communicate interactively with
           the user invoking the command procedure, perform conditional
           (IF-THEN-ELSE) and branching (GOTO) logic, and handle er-
           ror conditions.

           User Environment Tailoring - Users can customize the com-
           puting environment with user login command procedures, short-
           hand commands, binding of commands to function keys, and com-
           mand recall and editing.

           Program Development Environment

           VMS provides a comprehensive set of tools for developing pro-
           grams including editors (for editing source programs), a linker,
           a librarian, and a symbolic debugger. The assembly-level VAX MACRO
           language is supplied with VMS.

           The VMS Run-Time Library provides string manipulation, I/O
           routines, I/O conversion, terminal independent screen han-
           dling, date and time formatting routines, common mathemat-
           ical functions, signaling and condition handling, and other
           general purpose functions. These routines can be called from
           programs written in VAX MACRO or from VAX Ada, VAX BASIC,
           VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language, VAX C, VAX COBOL, VAX DIBOL,
           VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal, VAX PL/I, and VAX SCAN.

           Major VMS languages (including those listed above) adhere
           to the VAX common calling standard, meaning that routines
           written in any of these languages can directly call routines
           written in any other language. Development of applications
           using multiple languages is simple and straightforward.




                                       3

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           All routines in the Run-Time Library follow the VMS call-
           ing standard and condition handling conventions and most are
           contained within a shareable image.

           At a lower level, programs can call system services directly
           for security, event flag, asynchronous system trap, logi-
           cal name, record and file I/O, process control, timer, time
           conversion, condition handling, lock management, and mem-
           ory management services. Again, system services use the VMS
           calling standard and condition handling conventions.

           VMS supports execution of non-privileged images created on
           earlier versions of VMS. Recompiling and relinking are typ-
           ically not required.

           Some tools available to the VMS programmer are:

           Librarian utility - The Librarian utility permits efficient
           storage of object modules, macros, Help text, or any gen-
           eral record-oriented information in central, easily acces-
           sible files. Object module libraries are searched by the linker
           when the linker finds a reference it cannot resolve in one
           of its input files. Macro libraries are searched by the as-
           sembler when the assembler finds a macro that is not defined
           in the input file.

           Debugger - The debugger allows users to trace program ex-
           ecution as well as display and modify register contents us-
           ing the same symbols that are in the source code.

           RMS file utilities - RMS file utilities allow users to an-
           alyze the internal structure of an RMS file and to deter-
           mine the most appropriate set of parameters for an RMS file.
           They can also be used to create, efficiently load, and re-
           claim space in an RMS file. Refer to the Operating System
           Environment section of this Software Product Description (SPD)
           for more information on RMS.

           File Differences utility - This utility compares the con-
           tents of two files and lists those records that do not match.

                                       4

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Terminal Fallback Facility (TFF) - This facility allows Dig-
           ital 7-bit terminals, such as the VT100, to input and out-
           put the DEC Multinational Character Set (MCS). Specific ta-
           bles allow conversion for a number of different 7-bit Na-
           tional Replacement Character sets, such as French, German,
           Spanish, and Swedish, to MCS. TFF also allows character com-
           position on terminals that do not have the compose key.

           National Character Set (NCS) utility - This utility allows
           users to define non-ASCII string collating sequences and to
           define conversion functions. Conversion functions use con-
           version algorithms to change an input string, for example,
           to change lower case characters to upper case. NCS also al-
           lows RMS indexed files to be collated using user-specified
           collating sequences.

           System Management Environment

           VMS provides a variety of tools to aid the system manager
           in configuring and maintaining an optimal system. Some tools
           available for the system manager are:

           Backup utility - This utility provides full volume and in-
           cremental file backup for file-structured, mounted volumes
           and volume sets. Individual files, selected directory struc-
           tures, or all files on a volume set can be backed up and re-
           stored. Files can be selected by various dates (creation,
           modification, etc.). Files can be backed up to magnetic tape,
           magnetic disk, or WORM (Write Once Read Many) optical disk.
           With standalone backup, system managers can backup and re-
           store system disks. Standalone Backup can also be used dur-
           ing the installation of the VMS Operating System. The Backup
           utility can be used to restore a saveset or list the con-
           tents of a saveset.

           Analyze disk structure utility - This utility compares the
           structure information on a disk volume with the contents of
           the disk, prints the structure information, and permits changes



                                       5

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           to that information. It also can be used to repair errors
           that are detected in the file structure of disks.

           Monitor utility - This utility permits the system manager
           to monitor different classes of system-wide performance data
           including process activity, I/O activity, memory management
           activity, vector processing activity, and two-phase commit
           transaction activity at specified intervals. The data may
           be displayed as it is gathered or saved in a file for later
           use.

           License Management Facility (LMF) - This facility allows the
           system manager to easily determine which software products
           are licensed on a standalone VAX and on each of the VAX sys-
           tems in a VAXcluster System. It allows the system manager
           to select which subset of systems or users in a VAXcluster
           may use the software products. LMF also provides an audit
           trail that allows the system manager to track license changes
           that occur within a VAXcluster system. Refer to the VAXclus-
           ter Support section for more information on VAXcluster Sys-
           tems.

           VMS System Management (SYSMAN) utility - This utility al-
           lows the system manager to define a system management en-
           vironment so that operations performed from the local VAX
           system can be executed on all other VAX systems in the de-
           fined environment. The environment may include VAX systems
           in a DECnet-VAX network or in a VAXcluster System.

           Operations - VMS enables varying levels of privilege to be
           assigned to different operators. In addition, system gen-
           erated messages can be routed to different terminals based
           on their interest to the console operators, tape librari-
           ans, security administrators, and system managers. Opera-
           tors can use the VMS Help facility to get an online descrip-
           tion of VMS Error Messages.





                                       6

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Security and Control - VMS provides privilege, protection,
           and quota mechanisms to control user access to system-controlled
           structures in physical memory, to system-structured files
           and volumes, and to certain devices.

           User account information is maintained by the system man-
           ager in the User Authorization File (UAF). When creating user
           accounts with the Authorize utility, the system manager as-
           signs the privileges and quotas associated with each user
           account. The system manager also assigns a unique user name,
           password, and user identification code (UIC) to each account.
           Optionally, additional identifiers can be assigned to each
           account, permitting users to belong to multiple overlapping
           groups or projects. Account use may be limited by time of
           day, day of week, and type of access, such as local, remote,
           or batch.

           To log in and gain access to the system, the user must sup-
           ply the user name and password. The password is encoded and
           does not appear on terminal displays. Users can change their
           password voluntarily, or the system manager can selectively
           enforce how frequently passwords change, password length,
           and generation of random alphabetic passwords.

           Additionally, VMS provides several password filters that screen
           all user password changes against a dictionary of common pass-
           words. This prevents users from reusing passwords that they
           have used within the last year. In addition to these built-
           in filters, a site can install their own filter to screen
           passwords against a site-specific password policy.

           The system password hash algorithm can also be replaced with
           a private algorithm for those sites that have contractual
           agreements to use specific password encryption algorithms.
           This feature can be enabled on a per-user, per-password ba-
           sis.





                                       7

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Login security includes breakin detection, which allows ter-
           minals to be disabled when password guessing is detected.
           When a user logs in, the system displays a message stating
           when the last login for the account occurred and if there
           have been failed attempts to log in since the last success-
           ful login.

           A UIC consists of two fields, the unique user field and a
           group field. Every file, device, queue, or other system ob-
           ject is labeled with the UIC of its owner (normally the user
           who created the object).

           Files, devices, queues, and other system objects are assigned
           a protection mask that allows read, execute, write, and delete
           access to be selectively granted to the object's owner and
           group, to privileged system users, and to all other users.
           In addition, files, devices, queues, and some other system
           objects can be protected with access control lists to al-
           low access to be selectively granted or denied to a list of
           individual users, groups, or identifiers.

           Scavenge protection can be enabled selectively in the form
           of file high-water marking, erase on allocate, and erase on
           delete, to ensure that file contents cannot be read after
           a file has been deleted.

           Security alarms are provided to allow selective auditing of
           security related events, including:

           o  Login and logout

           o  Login failures and breakin attempts

           o  Authorization changes

           o  File access, selectable by use of privilege, type of ac-
              cess, and by individual file

           Note: No system can provide complete security and Digital
           cannot guarantee system security. However, Digital contin-
           ually strives to enhance the security capabilities of its

                                       8

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           products. Customers are strongly advised to follow industry-
           recognized security practices.


           INSTALLATION

           VMS is distributed as binary kits on tape and compact disc.
           Procedures for setting up the system disk from a kit and for
           preparing the system for day-to-day operations are easy and
           straightforward. The procedures are described in the VMS Up-
           grade and Installation Manual and Cover Letter. Computer-
           specific information is contained in the upgrade and instal-
           lation supplements for each family of VAX computers.

           The VMS AUTOGEN command procedure automatically sets a num-
           ber of system parameters by detecting devices installed in
           a configuration. A feedback option can be used to generate
           a report of recommended parameter settings for system tun-
           ing.

           VMSINSTAL

           VMS includes a facility to automate operating system soft-
           ware updates, as well as to handle the installation of op-
           tional Digital-supplied software products.

           Tailoring Facility

           Tailoring lets the system manager remove groups of VMS files
           from the system disk or add groups of VMS files that were
           formerly removed. The VMSTAILOR program supplies step-by-
           step instructions. The DECW$TAILOR program is used to add
           or remove groups of DECwindows files from the system disk.

           Due to space constraints, there is no guarantee that lay-
           ered products can be installed if user files reside on the
           system disk.




                                       9

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Application programs will execute as long as the layered prod-
           ucts or optional software products do not depend on optional
           software run-time components that are not supported in the
           tailored environment. Refer to the product's System Support
           Addendum (SSA) for the optional products supported in the
           tailored environment.

           Batch/Print Facility

           VMS provides an extensive batch/print facility that allows
           the creation of queues and the setup of spooled devices in
           order to process non-interactive workloads in parallel with
           timesharing or real-time jobs.

           In the VMS Operating System, batch and print operations sup-
           port two types of queues: generic queues and execution queues.
           A generic queue is an intermediate queue that holds a job
           until an appropriate execution queue becomes available to
           initiate the job. An execution queue is a queue through which
           the job (either print or batch) is actually processed or ex-
           ecuted.

           The system queues batch jobs for execution. The system man-
           ager can regulate the number of queues and the number of streams
           per queue (that is, the number of batch jobs in the queue
           that can execute concurrently).

           Both generic and execution batch queues can have different
           attributes, such as the maximum CPU time permitted, work-
           ing set size, and priority. Facilities are provided for start-
           ing and stopping queues, and for starting and stopping jobs
           in a queue. Because multiple execution queues can be asso-
           ciated with a generic queue, VMS enables load balancing across
           available CPUs in a VAXcluster system, increasing overall
           system throughput.

           Print queues, both generic and execution, together with queue
           management facilities, provide versatile print capabilities,
           including support of ANSI and PostScript[R] file printing.


                                      10

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Sites requiring sophisticated batch job dependency check-
           ing and job restart capabilities should refer to the DEC-
           scheduler for VMS Software Product Description (SPD 32.19.xx).

           Accounting

           For accounting purposes, VMS keeps records of the use of sys-
           tem resources. These statistics include processor and mem-
           ory utilization, I/O counts, print symbiont line counts, im-
           age activation counts, and process termination records. VMS
           Accounting allows various reports to be generated using this
           data.

           Autoconfigure/Autogen

           VMS provides utilities to automatically configure the avail-
           able devices into the system tables and to set system op-
           erational parameters based on the detected peripheral and
           memory configuration. There is no need for a traditional "sys-
           tem generation" process when the hardware configuration is
           expanded or otherwise modified.

           Operating System Environment

           Process and Scheduling

           The basic unit of execution in VMS is the process. A pro-
           cess consists of individual address space and registers known
           as "context," and code called an "executable image." The con-
           text identifies the process and describes its current state.
           Executable images consist of system programs and user pro-
           grams that have been compiled and linked.

           The maximum number of concurrent processes is 8,192 per VAX
           system.






                                      11

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Processes receive processor time to execute their images based
           on the priority of the process. Thirty-two priorities are
           recognized: priorities 0 to 15 are for time-sharing processes
           and applications that are not time critical (four is the typ-
           ical default for time-sharing processes), and priorities 16
           to 31 are for real-time processes.

           Each time an event such as an I/O interrupt occurs, the sys-
           tem first services the event and then passes control to the
           highest priority process ready to execute. The system au-
           tomatically adjusts priorities of processes whose base pri-
           ority is in the range of 0 to 15 to favor I/O-bound and in-
           teractive processes, but the system will not adjust the pri-
           ority of a process in the range of 16 to 31.

           Real-time processes can be assigned higher priorities to en-
           sure that they receive processor time whenever they are ready
           to execute. Real-time processes are scheduled pre-emptively;
           that is, if a real-time process is ready to execute, it is
           given the processor immediately, unless a real-time process
           with a higher priority is ready to execute.

           VMS uses paging and swapping mechanisms to provide suffi-
           cient virtual memory for multiple concurrently executing pro-
           cesses. Also, paging and swapping is provided for processes
           whose memory requirements exceed available physical memory.
           The maximum working set size is 200,000 pages of memory.

           Programmers can exercise control over memory management from
           within an image. An image executing in a real-time process,
           for example, can inhibit paging or swapping of critical code
           and data.

           Peripheral devices can be managed by the system or allocated
           by individual processes. At least one disk must be a sys-
           tem disk. Other disks can be designated as data disks for
           the general use of all users logging into the system or for
           a specific group of users. The system controls interactive
           terminals and one or more printers.


                                      12

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Vector Processing

           A single data item, having one value, is known as a scalar
           value. A group of related scalar values, or elements, all
           of the same data type, is known as a vector.

           An extension to the VAX architecture defines an optional de-
           sign for integrated vector processing that has been adopted
           by several VAX systems. The VAX vector architecture includes
           16 64-bit vector registers (V0 through V15), each contain-
           ing 64 elements; vector control registers; vector function
           units; and a set of vector instructions. VAX vector instruc-
           tions transfer data between the vector registers and mem-
           ory, perform integer and floating-point arithmetic, and ex-
           ecute processor control functions.

           A more detailed description of the VAX vector architecture,
           vector registers, and vector instructions appears in the VAX MACRO
           and Instruction Set Reference Manual.

           The VMS Operating System provides fully-shared, multiprogramming
           support for VAX vector processing systems. By default, VMS
           loads vector support code when initializing vector-present
           systems, but does not load it when initializing vector-absent
           systems. A system manager can control this behavior by us-
           ing the SYSGEN parameter VECTOR_PROC, as described in the
           VMS documentation.

           The presence of vector support code in a system has little
           affect on processes running in a scalar-only system, or scalar
           processes running in a vector-present system. If many pro-
           cesses must simultaneously compete for vector processor re-
           sources in a system, the system manager can maintain good
           performance by adjusting system resources and process quo-
           tas as indicated in the VMS documentation.






                                      13

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           The VMS Operating System makes the services of the vector
           processor available to system users by means of a software
           abstract known as a capability. A system manager can restrict
           the use of the vector processor to users holding a partic-
           ular identifier by associating an access control list (ACL)
           entry with the CAPABILITY object VECTOR.

           The VAX Vector Instruction Emulation Facility (VVIEF) is a
           standard feature of the VMS Operating System that allows vec-
           torized applications to be written and debugged in a VAX sys-
           tem in which vector processors are not available. VVIEF em-
           ulates the VAX vector processing environment, including the
           non-privileged VAX vector instructions and the VMS vector
           system services, as described in the VMS documentation. Use
           of VVIEF is restricted to user mode code.

           DECdtm Services

           The DECdtm services embedded in the VMS Operating System sup-
           port fully distributed databases using a "two phase commit"
           protocol. The DECdtm services provide the technology and fea-
           tures for distributed processing, ensuring both transaction
           and database integrity across multiple resource managers.
           Updates to distributed databases occur as a single "all or
           nothing" unit of work, regardless of where the data phys-
           ically resides. This ensures consistency of distributed data.

           DECdtm services allow applications to define "global trans-
           actions" that may include calls to any of a number of Dig-
           ital data management products. Regardless of the mix of data
           management products used, the global transaction will ei-
           ther commit or abort. VMS is unique in providing transac-
           tion processing functionality as base operating system ser-
           vices.







                                      14

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           DECdtm Features

           o  Embedded VMS system services support the DECtp architec-
              ture, providing features and the technology for distributed
              transaction processing.

           o  DECdtm allows multiple disjoint resources to be updated
              atomically. These resources can be either physically-disjointed
              (for example, on different CPUs) or logically-disjointed
              (for example, in different databases on the same CPU).

           o  DECdtm encourages robust application development. Appli-
              cations can be written to ensure that data is never in
              an inconsistent state, even in the event of system fail-
              ures.

           o  As a VMS service, DECdtm can be called using any Digi-
              tal TP monitor (ACMS or DECintact) or database product
              (DBMS, RDB, RMS). This is useful for applications using
              several database products.

           Interprocess Communication

           VMS provides a number of facilities for applications that
           consist of multiple cooperating processes:

           o  Mailboxes are virtual devices that allow processes to com-
              municate with queued messages.

           o  Shared memory sections on a single processor or a sym-
              metrical multiprocessing (SMP) system permit multiple pro-
              cesses to access shared address space concurrently.

           o  Common event flags provide simple synchronization.

           o  The lock manager provides a more comprehensive enqueue
              /dequeue facility with multi-level locks, values, and ASTs
              (Asynchronous System Traps).

           Symmetric Multiprocessing

                                      15

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           VMS provides symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) support for mul-
           tiprocessing VAX systems. SMP is a form of tightly coupled
           multiprocessing in which all processors perform operations
           simultaneously. The processors can perform operations in all
           VAX access modes (user, supervisor, executive, and kernel).

           VMS SMP configurations consist of multiple central process-
           ing units executing code from a single shared memory address
           space. Users and processes share a single copy of VMS. SMP
           also provides simultaneous shared access to common data in
           global sections to all processors. VMS SMP dynamically bal-
           ances the execution of all processes across all available
           processors based on process priority.

           SMP support is an integral part of VMS and is provided trans-
           parently to the user. Because an SMP system is a single sys-
           tem entity, it is configured into a network and VAXcluster
           systems as a single node.

           VAXcluster Support

           VAXcluster Software is a VMS System Integrated Product (SIP)
           that is separately licensed. It provides a highly integrated
           VMS computing environment distributed over multiple VAX, VAX
           Workstation, and MicroVAX CPUs. This environment is called
           a VAXcluster system and may contain up to 96 VAX CPUs.

           VAXcluster CPUs communicate using any combination of four
           interconnects; CI, DSSI, Ethernet, and FDDI. VAXcluster sys-
           tems that include a CI may optionally be configured with HSC-
           series intelligent storage controllers.

           Applications running on one or more CPUs in a VAXcluster sys-
           tem access shared resources in a coordinated manner. VAX-
           cluster Software components synchronize access to shared re-
           sources, preventing multiple processes on any CPU in the VAX-
           cluster from interfering with each other when updating data.




                                      16

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           This coordination ensures data integrity during multiple con-
           current update transactions. Application programs can spec-
           ify the level of VAXcluster-wide file sharing that is re-
           quired; access is then coordinated by the VMS Extended QIO
           Processor (XQP) and Record Management Services (RMS).

           The VMS queue manager controls VAXcluster-wide batch and print
           queues, which can be accessed by any VAXcluster CPU. Batch
           jobs submitted to VAXcluster-wide queues are routed to any
           available CPU so that the batch load is shared.

           Two or more VAX computers connected to the same Computer In-
           terconnect (CI) or Digital Storage Systems Interconnect (DSSI)
           must run VAXcluster software and be part of the same VAX-
           cluster system.

           Refer to the VAXcluster Software Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 29.78.xx) for more information.

           Networking Facilities

           VMS provides device drivers for all Digital Ethernet adapters
           listed in the Ethernet Options section of this SPD. Appli-
           cation programmers can use the QIO system service to com-
           municate with other systems connected via the Ethernet us-
           ing either Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 packet format. Simulta-
           neous use of Digital Ethernet and IEEE 802.3 protocols are
           supported on any Digital Ethernet adapter.

           VMS also provides device drivers for Digital asynchronous
           adapters that are supported by DECnet-VAX. Customers must
           order the VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers kit (refer
           to SPD 29.64.xx) to obtain synchronous device drivers for
           Digital synchronous adapters. Not all devices are supported,
           and certain restrictions apply relative to line speed and
           line utilization. Refer to the Hardware Charts and Appendix
           B of this SPD, as well as the DECnet-VAX SPD (25.03.xx), for
           more information.



                                      17

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           DECnet-VAX offers task-to-task communications, file manage-
           ment, downline system and task loading, network command ter-
           minals, and network resource sharing capabilities using the
           Digital Network Architecture (DNA) protocols.

           DECnet-VAX Software is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that
           is separately licensed from the VMS Operating System. Re-
           fer to the DECnet-VAX SPD (SPD 25.03.xx) for further infor-
           mation on supported communications devices and software fea-
           tures.

           Internet networking is available through the VMS/ULTRIX Con-
           nection layered product. This product provides TCP/IP net-
           working (useful with DECwindows), Network File System (NFS),
           File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Remote Terminal Services (TEL-
           NET), and other features. Refer to the VMS/ULTRIX Connec-
           tion SPD (SPD 25.A4.xx).

           Terminal Server Products

           Digital's terminal server products can be used for termi-
           nal server access to VMS. When used in a VAXcluster system
           environment, terminal servers automatically distribute users
           at login time across the available VAX systems.

           VMS can also establish a connection to other devices (such
           as printers) attached to such terminal servers.

           Reliability

           The system handles hardware errors as transparently as pos-
           sible while maintaining data integrity and providing suf-
           ficient information to diagnose the cause of the error. The
           system limits the effects of an error by first determining
           if the error is fatal. If the error is fatal then the pro-
           cess that encountered the error is aborted. If the error oc-
           curs in system context then the current VMS session is shut
           down. If the error is not fatal then recovery actions per-
           tinent to the error are executed and current operation is
           continued.

                                      18

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           In all cases, information relevant to the error is collected
           and put in the error log file for later analysis. Hardware
           errors include the following categories:

           o  Processor errors (these include processor soft errors,
              processor hard errors, processor machine checks, adapter
              errors).

           o  Memory errors are hardware errors that are handled in a
              slightly different manner. The system examines memory at
              startup time and does not use any pages found to be bad.
              During system operation, the hardware transparently cor-
              rects all single-bit memory errors for those systems with
              ECC memory. An unrecoverable error causes the memory page
              on which the error occurred to be added to the bad page
              list. If the page has not been modified, system opera-
              tion continues with a new copy of the page.

           Other failures include:

           o  Operating system errors (system-detected inconsistencies
              or architectural errors in system context)

           o  User errors

           o  I/O errors

              The system logs all processor errors, all operating sys-
              tem errors detected through internal consistency checks,
              all double-bit memory errors (and a summary of corrected
              single-bit errors), and all I/O errors. (Double-bit er-
              rors are detected only on those VAX and MicroVAX systems
              with ECC memory.)

              If the system is shut down because of an unrecoverable
              hardware or software error, a dump of physical memory is
              written. The dump includes the contents of the proces-
              sor registers. The VMS System Dump Analyzer utility is
              provided for analyzing memory dumps.


                                      19

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Power Failures

           If power fails, the system shuts down automatically. When
           power is restored, the system restarts automatically and re-
           sumes processing at the point of interruption if the sys-
           tem has a time-of-day clock and a memory battery backup unit,
           if the contents of memory are still valid, and if the sys-
           tem is set to permit automatic rebooting.

           The system restarts devices and communications lines. All
           I/O operations in progress, including magnetic tape I/O op-
           erations, are restarted. On request, programs can be noti-
           fied of power restoration. An optional battery-operated hard-
           ware clock resets the date and time of day when the system
           restarts. If the system does not have a battery backup unit,
           or if the memory contents are not valid on power restora-
           tion, the system will reboot automatically if the system is
           set to permit automatic rebooting.

           If, for any reason, the system disk does not come back on
           line after a power failure within a specific time after the
           CPU regains power, the system shuts down.

           Test Package and Diagnostics

           VMS includes a User Environment Test Package (UETP) that ver-
           ifies that the VMS Operating System is properly installed
           and ready for use on the customer's systems.

           Diagnostics can be run on individual devices during normal
           system operation. Certain critical components can operate
           in degraded mode. For example, the memory cache can be dis-
           abled. The system places a component in degraded mode when
           errors pass a threshold level.

           Input/Output





                                      20

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           The QIO system service provides a direct interface to the
           operating system's I/O routines. These services are avail-
           able from within most VAX programming languages and can be
           used to perform low-level I/O operations efficiently with
           a minimal amount of system overhead for time-critical ap-
           plications.

           Device drivers execute I/O instructions to transfer data to
           and from the device and to communicate directly with an I/O
           device. Each type of I/O device requires its own driver. Dig-
           ital supplies drivers for all devices supported by the VMS
           Operating System and provides QIO system service routines
           to access the special device dependent features available
           in many of these devices. Users with special needs or non-
           VMS supported devices can write their own device drivers.
           The VMS Device Support Manual and the VMS Device Support Ref-
           erence Manual in the VMS Extended Documentation set describe
           how to write device drivers.

           The VMS Operating System supports a variety of disk and tape
           peripheral devices, as well as terminals, networks, mail-
           boxes (virtual devices for interprocess communication), and
           more general I/O devices. These I/O devices include line print-
           ers, card readers, and general purpose data acquisition de-
           vices such as the DRB32.

           VMS Record Management Services (VMS RMS)

           VMS RMS is a set of I/O services that help application pro-
           grams to process and manage files and records. Although it
           is primarily intended to provide a comprehensive software
           interface to mass storage devices, VMS RMS also supports device-
           independent access to unit-record devices.

           VMS RMS supports sequential, relative, and indexed file or-
           ganizations in fixed-length and variable-length record for-
           mats. VMS RMS also supports byte stream formats for sequen-
           tial file organization. VMS RMS record access modes provide
           access to records in four ways: sequentially, directly by


                                      21

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           key value, directly by relative record number, and directly
           by record file address. VMS RMS also supports block I/O op-
           erations for various performance-critical applications that
           may require user-defined file organizations and record for-
           mats.

           VMS RMS promotes safe and efficient file sharing by provid-
           ing multiple file access modes, automatic record locking where
           applicable, and optional buffer sharing by multiple processes.

           VMS RMS utilities aid file creation and record maintenance.
           These utilities convert files from one organization and for-
           mat to another, restructure indexed files for storage and
           access efficiency, and reclaim data structures within in-
           dexed files. The utilities also generate appropriate reports.

           For systems that have DECnet installed, VMS RMS provides a
           subset of file and record management services to remote net-
           work nodes. Network remote file operations are generally trans-
           parent to user programs.

           DCL commands such as EDIT, CREATE, COPY, TYPE, and PRINT al-
           low manipulation of RMS files and records within RMS files
           at the DCL command level.

           VAX RMS Journaling

           VAX RMS Journaling is a tool that maintains the data integrity
           of RMS files in the face of a number of failure scenarios.
           It helps to protect RMS file data from becoming lost or in-
           consistent. RMS Journaling is a System Integrated Product
           (SIP) that is separately licensed. Refer to the VAX RMS Jour-
           naling SPD (SPD 27.58.xx) for more information.

           Disk and Tape Volumes

           Disk volumes can be organized into volume sets. Volume sets
           can contain a mix of disk device types and can be extended



                                      22

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           by adding volumes. Within a volume set, files of any orga-
           nization type can span multiple volumes. Files can be al-
           located to the set as a whole (the default) or to specific
           volumes within the set. Optionally, portions of indexed files
           can be allocated to specific areas of a single disk volume
           or to specific volumes in a volume set.

           Disk quotas can be placed to control the amount of space in-
           dividual users can allocate. Quota assignment is made by User
           Identification Code and can be controlled for each volume
           set in the system (or for each individual volume if the vol-
           ume is not part of a set).

           Disk structure information can be cached in memory to re-
           duce the I/O overhead required for file management services.
           Although not required to do so, users can preallocate space
           and control automatic allocation. For example, a file can
           be extended by a given number of blocks, contiguously or non-
           contiguously, for optimal file system performance in spe-
           cific cases.

           The system applies software validity checks and checksums
           to critical disk structure information. If a volume is im-
           properly dismounted because of user error or system fail-
           ure, the system automatically rebuilds the volume's struc-
           ture information the next time the volume is mounted. The
           system detects bad blocks dynamically and prevents their reuse
           once the files to which the blocks were allocated are deleted.
           On Digital Storage Architecture (DSA) disks, the disk con-
           troller dynamically detects and replaces bad blocks auto-
           matically.

           The system provides eight levels of named directories and
           subdirectories whose contents are alphabetically ordered.
           Device and file specifications follow Digital conventions.
           Logical names can be used to abbreviate the specifications





                                      23

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           and to make application programs device and file-name in-
           dependent. A logical name can be assigned to an entire spec-
           ification, to a portion of a specification, or to another
           logical name.

           VMS supports multivolume magnetic tape files with transpar-
           ent volume switching. Access positioning is done either by
           filename or by relative file position.

           VMS Volume Shadowing

           Digital provides the VMS Volume Shadowing product for per-
           forming disk shadowing operations.

           VMS Volume Shadowing is a VMS System Integrated Product (SIP)
           that is separately licensed. VMS Volume Shadowing provides
           high data availability for disk storage devices by ensur-
           ing against data loss resulting from media deterioration or
           through controller or device failure. This prevents stor-
           age subsystem component failures from interrupting system
           or application operation.

           The system disk and Files-11 On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS2) data
           disks can be volume shadowed.

           The VMS Volume Shadowing product supports shadowing of all
           MSCP-compliant DSA disks and all Digital SCSI disks. All disks
           in a single shadow set must have the same physical geome-
           try and can be located on a single system or anywhere in a
           VAXcluster system. Disks can be configured on any MSCP or
           Digital SCSI compliant controller; this includes HSC-series
           controllers, local controllers, DSSI Integrated Storage El-
           ements, and VMS MSCP Served DSA devices. Nonlocal disks can
           be accessed using any of the supported VAXcluster intercon-
           nects (CI, DSSI, Ethernet, FDDI, and mixed).

           VMS Volume Shadowing provides fault tolerance resulting from
           disk media errors or controller errors across the full range
           of VAX processors and configurations. Shadow set member units
           can be located on different controllers and VMS MSCP servers,

                                      24

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           providing configuration flexibility and a high degree of data
           availability.

           Refer to the VAX Volume Shadowing SPD (SPD 27.29.xx) for more
           information.

           VMS DECwindows Environment

           Integral to VMS is support for the VMS DECwindows desktop
           environment. VMS DECwindows is based on the X User Inter-
           face (XUI) and is delivered as a component of the VMS Op-
           erating System. Additionally, Digital offers a new separately
           orderable layered product called VMS DECwindows Motif[TM].
           VMS DECwindows Motif provides support for both OSF/Motif[TM],
           an open standard that is the new default user interface, and
           the X User Interface in a single run-time and development
           environment. Because both Motif and XUI are based on MIT's
           X Window System, applications written to either toolkit con-
           tinue to run regardless of which environment the user se-
           lects. Refer to the VMS DECwindows Motif SPD (SPD 36.09.xx)
           for more information.

           VMS DECwindows is based on MIT's specification for the X Win-
           dow System, Version 11, Release 3. X Window System standards
           supported as part of DECwindows include the X11 network pro-
           tocol, a base set of workstation fonts, the C language bind-
           ing for the Xlib programming library, and the C language bind-
           ing for the Xtoolkit library. Also featured within DECwin-
           dows for workstation users is support for Adobe's Display
           PostScript integrated into X11.

           Support of the X11 network protocol in the client, library,
           and display server components provides VMS with the abil-
           ity to interoperate with other X11-compliant systems in a
           distributed fashion.






                                      25

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           DECwindows supports the server-client distribution inher-
           ent in the X Window System, with three VMS-provided trans-
           port interfaces - local shared memory, DECnet, and TCP/IP
           (using Digital's VMS/ULTRIX Connection (UCX) layered prod-
           uct). Users can also provide their own transport subsystems
           and transport interfaces.

           To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows or
           X application runs on or can communicate with a VMS DECwin-
           dows system, consult the application's Software Product De-
           scription.

           The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user
           interface to VMS. This user interface defines a powerful model
           for interacting with the VMS Operating System using a point
           and click metaphor. It includes a set of integrated desk-
           top applications that demonstrate the power of this new metaphor
           and that provide VMS users with a base set of desktop tools.

           The user environment consists of four basic components:

           1. The Session Manager provides the top-level user inter-
              face to a DECwindows workstation. It performs applica-
              tion activation, session-wide customization, screen print-
              ing, security management, and session control. The ses-
              sion manager also allows users to specify the language
              in which DECwindows should run, provided that a VMS DECwin-
              dows language variant kit has been ordered and installed.

           2. The Window Manager provides user control for managing win-
              dows.

           3. FileView is a graphical interface to VMS file management
              that allows users to navigate through the VMS file sys-
              tem and perform operations on files.

           4. The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users
              with a traditional character cell interface for exist-
              ing VMS features and applications. It is a ReGIS and sixel
              compatible VT320 terminal emulator. Programs written for
              VT52, VT100, VT220, or VT320-class terminals and using

                                      26

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


              VMS terminal driver features operate without modifica-
              tion in this workstation window. DECterm also provides
              workstation-oriented features such as mouse-based cur-
              sor positioning, variable screen sizes, and cutting and
              pasting of text between terminal emulators and other DECwin-
              dows applications.

           Applications

           A set of integrated desktop applications is provided as a
           base component of the DECwindows environment. These appli-
           cations establish and demonstrate the consistent DECwindows
           user model. They also provide significant end user capabil-
           ities.

           o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that
              are distributed and stored on-line

           o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator

           o  Calendar - A personal time management system

           o  Cardfiler - A hierarchical information storage applica-
              tion similar to an online address and/or phone book

           o  Clock - An analog and/or digital date and time display
              with notification by alarm

           o  Compound Document viewer - Tools for reading documents
              containing compound text, graphics, and image data on ter-
              minals and DECwindows workstations

           o  DEBUG - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS DEBUGGER

           o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS mail fa-
              cility

           o  Notepad - A simple text editor

           o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor

           o  Puzzle game - A game that challenges users to sort mixed
              up puzzle tiles

                                      27

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           o  TPU/EVE - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS TPU/EVE
              editor

           DECwindows workstation users can display PostScript files
           featuring WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) compati-
           bility between the display and any of Digital's PostScript
           printers. Display PostScript ability is available within the
           Compound Document viewer and DECwindows Mail.

           Programming Support

           The VMS DECwindows environment includes an extensive set of
           programming libraries and tools for use by developers of new
           applications. These components support the development of
           portable applications by focusing on three broad areas:

           o  X Window System (X) support

           o  X User Interface (XUI) support

           o  Compound Document Architecture (CDA) support

           Components from each of these areas can be used in any com-
           bination to address the needs of applications. They can also
           use the tools from a variety of different programming lan-
           guages. All programming libraries have been provided with
           procedural language bindings in both the style of the VAX
           calling standard and the style of the MIT C language pro-
           gramming conventions.

           Support is provided for the following languages:

           VAX Ada                 VAX FORTRAN

           VAX BASIC               VAX MACRO

           VAX BLISS-32            VAX Pascal
                Implementation
           Language


                                      28

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAX C (VAX calling      VAX PL/I
           standard
                or MIT conven-
           tion)

           X Window System (X) Programming Support

           The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib)
           provided by the VMS DECwindows environment provides basic
           resource management (windows, color maps, input devices) and
           bitmap graphics services. It defines a mapping of the X net-
           work protocol to a procedure library.

           The Xtoolkit programming library is also supported by the
           VMS DECwindows environment. It is described further under
           XUI Programming Support.

           X User Interface (XUI) Programming Support

           XUI determines the application model for Digital and third-
           party software tailored for the DECwindows environment. It
           establishes the conventions and styles that are encouraged
           for applications that share a DECwindows workstation. Ap-
           plications use XUI components to build user interfaces that
           make them look and feel like integrated members of the Dig-
           ital computing environment.

           The XUI Style Guide, available in the VMS DECwindows Pro-
           gramming Kit, describes the principles, philosophy, and com-
           ponents used to build consistent and well-integrated DECwin-
           dows applications.

           Its concepts are implemented by the XUI Toolkit. The XUI Toolkit
           is a superset of the X Window System Xtoolkit and contains
           four components:

           o  Xtoolkit components (known as intrinsics) for managing,
              modifying, and creating user interface objects (known as
              widgets and gadgets)

                                      29

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           o  DECwindows widgets and gadgets for implementing common
              user interface objects such as scroll bars, menus, and
              push buttons

           o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions
              for performing common tasks such as cut and paste

           o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface def-
              inition files and creating widgets and gadgets based on
              the contents of the definition files

           The XUI Toolkit is used in conjunction with the DECwindows
           User Interface Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface
           definition files produced by this compiler contain the data
           to separate form and function in DECwindows applications and
           allow DECwindows toolkit widget and gadget details, such as
           menu item labels, to be stored separately from the toolkit
           and application run-time code. This capability allows ap-
           plication developers to prototype and modify user interface
           designs, separate form and function in applications, and sup-
           port internationalizable products.

           Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

           The Display PostScript system provided with VMS DECwindows
           extends the native X graphical programming environment for
           Digital DECwindows workstation users.

           X Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the
           basic X11 environment:

           o  All DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and ro-
              tation angle

           o  XDPS graphics specified in a user-defined coordinate sys-
              tems are independent of monitor density

           o  Color or gray-scale rendition are automatically modified
              to take advantage of the monitor type through either di-
              rect display, color dithering, or half-toning

                                      30

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and
              executed on command

           o  Sophisticated graphics primitives such as precisely-controlled
              Bezier curves can be displayed

           o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily

           Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe Client Li-
           brary. In addition, a converter called pswrap allows users
           to convert PostScript code into C programs that can be called
           from other languages.

           Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Programming Support

           The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications
           can use to create, read, and write files containing compound
           text, graphics, and imaging data. These files provide a ve-
           hicle for recording this information on disk, a medium for
           interchange of this data between applications, and an in-
           termediate form from which high-resolution printable graph-
           ics data can be generated.

           In addition to providing support for developing new appli-
           cations to access compound documents, VMS also provides fall-
           back support, allowing many existing utilities to read and
           operate on these new kinds of files.

           Transport Mechanisms

           VMS DECwindows supports three different user-selectable mech-
           anisms for transport of X network protocol packets between
           applications and display servers.

           A VMS DECwindows-specific shared memory-based transport is
           used when the DECwindows application and display server are
           located on the same workstation. This optimization provides
           significantly greater performance. It is the default trans-
           port under these circumstances.


                                      31

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           DECnet is used when the DECwindows application and display
           server are distributed across two different machines in the
           network. It is the default transport under these circumstances.

           TCP/IP is used when the DECwindows application and display
           server are distributed across two different machines in the
           network and the Digital-supplied VMS/ULTRIX Connection (UCX)
           layered product is being used to make the connection. See
           the SOFTWARE LICENSING section of this SPD for licensing de-
           tails.

           Workstation Device Support

           The VMS DECwindows environment provides several software com-
           ponents to support displaying graphics and windowing out-
           put on and receiving keyboard and pointer driver input from
           VAX workstations.

           Device drivers are provided to support output to monochrome
           and color displays and to receive input from keyboard, mouse,
           and tablet devices.

           A display server compatible with the X Window System receives
           output requests from applications and translates those re-
           quests into driver commands. They also relay driver-generated
           input events back to the applications.

           Over 400 video fonts are provided in a variety of styles and
           point sizes for use on 75 and 100 dot per inch (dpi) mon-
           itors. These video fonts have been designed to correspond
           directly to the fonts used by Digital's PostScript print-
           ers. In addition, a font compiler is provided so that cus-
           tomers can make their own private fonts available on their
           DECwindows workstations and terminals.

           Multi-headed Workstation Support





                                      32

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           A multi-headed workstation consists of one system box, one
           keyboard and one mouse, but more than one monitor and graph-
           ics controller. It is a single-user workstation. Multi-headed
           workstations provide more screen area for complex applica-
           tions.

           The screens on the multiple monitors are controlled by a sin-
           gle server. The mouse cursor can be moved freely between screens,
           and the keyboard can be used to generate input to windows
           on any screen. The server implementation handles each mon-
           itor as a separate X11 screen. This means that a single win-
           dow cannot cross screen boundaries; for example, users can-
           not drag a window from one monitor to another. However, users
           can cut and paste between windows on different screens, and
           windows can be opened on either screen, or both, by user ap-
           plications.

           The Dual Monitor Adapter is a cable (model number BC09E-06)
           that allows two monitors to be connected at the same time
           to a single VAXstation 3100 system box (models 30, 38, 40,
           and 48). The system must include one of the 8-plane graph-
           ics options, either the GPX graphics or SPX graphics accel-
           erator.

           The system must include at least one monochrome monitor, VR150
           or VR262, driven by the single-plane frame buffer that is
           standard on all VAXstation 3100s.

           The second monitor, connected to the 8-plane graphics op-
           tion, can be color, or it can be monochrome for gray scale
           operation. Supported color monitors are the VR160, VR290,
           VR297, VR299, and VRT19.

           Standards

           The VMS Operating System is based on the public, national,
           and international standards listed below. These standards




                                      33

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           are American National Standards Institute (ANSI), U.S. Fed-
           eral Information Processing (FIPS), and International Stan-
           dards Organization (ISO) standards. The following informa-
           tion may be useful in determining responsiveness to stated
           conformance requirements as enabled in particular commer-
           cial and/or government procurement solicitation documents.

           o  ANSI X3.4-1986: American Standard Code for Information
              Interchange

           o  ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape (800 BPI, NRZI)

           o  ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code

           o  ANSI X3.27-1987: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic
              Tapes for Information Interchange

           o  ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (1600 BPI, PE)

           o  ANSI X3.40-1983: Unrecorded Magnetic Tape

           o  ANSI X3.41-1974: Code Extension Techniques for Use with
              7-bit ASCII

           o  ANSI X3.42-1975: Representation of Numeric Values in Char-
              acter Strings

           o  ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (6250 BPI, GCR)

           o  ANSI X3.131-1986 (SCSI I): Small Computer System Inter-
              face

           o  ANSI X3T9.2/89-042 (SCSI II): Small Computer System In-
              terface as described in REV 10C

           o  ANSI/IEEE 802.2-1985: Logical Link Control

           o  ANSI/IEEE 802.3-1985: Carrier Sense Multiple Access with
              Collision Detection

           o  FIPS 1-2: Code for Information Interchange, its Repre-
              sentations, Subsets, and Extensions

              Note: 1-2 includes ANSI X3.4-1977(86)/FIPS 15; ANSI X3.32-
              1973/FIPS 36; ANSI X3.41-1974/FIPS 35; and FIPS 7

                                      34

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           o  FIPS 2-1/ANSI 3.6-1965: Perforated Tape Code for Infor-
              mation Interchange

           o  FIPS 3-1/ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape Infor-
              mation Interchange (800 CPI, NRZI)

           o  FIPS 13/ANSI X3.21-1967: Rectangular Holes in Twelve-row
              Punched Cards

           o  FIPS 14/ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code

           o  FIPS 16-1/ANSI X3.15-1976: Bit Sequencing of the Code for
              Information Interchange in Serial-by-bit Data Transmis-
              sion

              Note: FED STD 1010 adopts FIPS 16-1

           o  FIPS 22-1/ANSI X3.1-1976: Synchronous Signaling Rates Be-
              tween Data Terminal and Data Communication Equipment

              Note: FED STD 1013 adopts FIPS 22-1

           o  FIPS 25/ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for In-
              formation Interchange (1600 CPI, Phase Encoded)

           o  FIPS 26/ANSI X3.18-1967: One Inch Perforated Paper Tape
              for Information Interchange

           o  FIPS 37/ANSI X3.36-1975: Synchronous High Speed Data Sig-
              naling Rates Between Data Terminal Equipment and Data Com-
              munication Equipment

              Note: FED STD 1001 adopts FIPS 37

           o  FIPS 50/ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for In-
              formation Interchange, 6250 CPI (246 CPMM), Group Coded
              Recording

           o  FIPS 79/ANSI X3.27-1987: Magnetic Tape Labels and File
              Structure for Information Interchange

           o  FIPS 86/ANSI X3.64-1979: Additional Controls for Use with
              American National Standard Code for Information Inter-
              change

                                      35

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           o  Other FIPS not applicable

              Note: Information regarding interchangeability of ANSI
              and FED standards with FIPS is contained in "ADP Telecom-
              munications Standards Index," July 1988, published and
              maintained by the General Services Administration.

           o  ISO 646: ISO 7-bit Coded Character Set for Information
              Exchange

           o  ISO 1001: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic Tapes
              For Information Interchange

           o  ISO 1863: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5
              in) wide magnetic tape for information interchange recorded
              at 32 rpmm (800 rpi)

           o  ISO 1864: Information Processing - Unrecorded 12, 7 mm
              (0.5 in) wide magnetic tape for information interchange
              - 35 ftpmm (800 ftpi) NRZI, 126 ftpmm (3 200 ftpi) phase
              encoded and 356 ftmm (9 042 ftpi), NRZI

           o  ISO 2022: Code Extension Techniques for Use with ISO 646

           o  ISO 3307: Representations of Time of the Day

           o  ISO 3788: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5
              in) wide magnetic tape for information interchange recorded
              at 63 rpmm (1 600 rpt), phase encoded

           o  ISO 4873: 8-bit Code for Information Interchange - Struc-
              ture and Rules for Implementation

           o  ISO 5652: Recorded Magtape (6250)

           o  ISO 6429: Control Functions for Coded Character Sets





                                      36

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           VMS Disk Block Requirements

           Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 2):

           The disk block size for the VMS Operating System, Version
           5.5 after installation is approximately 91,000 blocks. This
           figure includes 5,600 blocks for page and swap files. Most
           systems will require larger page and swap files. This fig-
           ure also includes Help library files that are in data-compressed
           format. Most system managers choose to expand these files
           (for faster access). The expansion requires approximately
           8,500 additional blocks.

           At least 40,000 free blocks are required to upgrade from VMS
           V5.4 or V5.4-x to VMS V5.5.

           To support full VMS, a system disk of greater than 100 MB
           is recommended. When a smaller disk is used, additional tai-
           loring is required prior to installing some VMS options. This
           does not include the dump file space. Refer to VMS Upgrade
           and Installation Procedures Manual for information on tai-
           loring.

           VMS DECwindows Disk Block Requirements

           The disk block size for the complete VMS DECwindows envi-
           ronment after installation is approximately 64,000 blocks.
           This is in addition to the 91,000 blocks required for the
           other components of the VMS Operating System environment.
           A subset of the DECwindows environment can be installed. For
           example, programming support need not be installed in a user
           environment.

           The following list describes how many blocks are needed for
           each section:

           o  User environment and applications - 14,000 blocks. This
              section provides support for running VMS DECwindows ap-
              plications on VAX compute servers.


                                      37

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           o  Workstation device support - 15,000 blocks. This number
              includes 2,300 blocks for the 75 dpi fonts and 2,800 blocks
              for the 100 dpi fonts. On 75 dpi systems, the 100 dpi fonts
              do not have to be installed. On 100 dpi systems, both sets
              of fonts must be installed.

           o  Programming support - 32,000 blocks (approximately 3,500
              per language). This number includes support for all the
              programming languages. If only a subset of languages is
              installed, the amount of disk space will be less.

           o  Example files - approximately 3,000 blocks.

           Note that the individual sizes add up to more than the to-
           tal because some components are shared by multiple portions
           of the environment.

           To support full VMS and full VMS DECwindows, a system disk
           of greater than 115 MB is recommended. When a smaller disk
           is used, additional tailoring is required prior to installing
           some VMS and VMS DECwindows options. Refer to the VMS Up-
           grade and Installation Procedures Manual for information on
           tailoring.

           The VMS DECwindows software installation is an optional step
           in the VMS installation or upgrade procedure. It has been
           designed this way to allow users who do not need the VMS DECwin-
           dows software to conserve disk space and to allow systems
           with less than minimum configuration requirements to con-
           tinue to run VMS. Please refer to the VMS Installation and
           Upgrade Procedures Manual for details concerning the par-
           tial installation of the VMS DECwindows software.

           Memory Requirements

           The following tables describe the minimum amount of memory
           required for a system user to install, boot, and login to
           a VMS system. To ensure satisfactory performance of appli-
           cations, additional memory will be required.


                                      38

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           The minimum amount of memory supported for a stand-alone VMS
           system is 2 MB. This first table contains the minimum amount
           of additional memory required for the following components
           to be installed on a VMS system.

           _________________________________________________________
           Component________Necessary_Memory________________________

           DECnet           .5 MB

           VAXcluster       1.5 MB

           DECwindows       1.5 MB
           with remote
           execution of
           applications

           DECwindows       2.0 MB
           with local
           execution of
           applications_____________________________________________

           Two example configurations based on the previous table are:

           _________________________________________________________
           System___________Minimum_Supported_Memory________________

           DECwindows       4.0 MB
           with ap-
           plications
           executing re-
           motely, and
           DECnet








                                      39

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
           System___________Minimum_Supported_Memory________________

           DECwindows       6.0 MB
           with ap-
           plications
           executing
           locally, VAX-
           cluster and
           DECnet___________________________________________________

           Note: These are the minimum memory requirements. More mem-
           ory will be required for satisfactory performance of the op-
           erating system and DECwindows applications. The performance
           and memory usage of VMS DECwindows systems is particularly
           sensitive to system configuration and window and applica-
           tion usage. Remote execution of an application requires an
           additional system that runs the application while the dis-
           play of the application occurs on the local workstation.

           Please refer to specific layered product Software Product
           Descriptions for their memory requirements.

           Please refer to the VMS documentation for more information
           on performance.

           GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

           The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future
           version of this product may be different from the require-
           ments for the current version.

           DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

           Compact Disc

           9-track 1600 BPI Magnetic tape, TK50 Streaming Tape

           The VMS Operating System is also available as part of the
           VMS Consolidated Software Distribution on CDROM.


                                      40

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           The VMS Documentation is also available as part of the VMS
           Online Documentation Library on CDROM.


           DOCUMENTATION

           Extensive documentation is available for VMS. The documen-
           tation is organized into functional subkits, based on us-
           age. For example, all system management manuals are in one
           subkit. An easy-to-use desk-top set of manuals is also avail-
           able for users who do not require extensive documentation.

           Documentation for VMS DECwindows is available in two dif-
           ferent sets. The VMS DECwindows User Kit is for the end user
           and the VMS DECwindows Programming Kit is for the DECwin-
           dows software developer.

           In addition, the VMS Online Documentation Library compact
           disc contains the following VMS documentation, which can be
           read using the DECwindows Bookreader application:

           o  VMS Base Documentation Set

           o  VMS Extended Documentation Set

           o  VMS DECwindows User Kit and Programmer Kit*

           o  Selected VMS Layered Product Documentation

           *  With the exception of the Adobe PostScript Documentation,
              which is not available online.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           This section contains order numbers for VMS media, licenses,
           documentation, and services.

           Software License: QL-001A*-**

           Media and Documentation

                                      41

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           With Base Documentation Set: QA-09SA*-H*
           With Extended Documentation Set: QA-001A*-H*

           Additional Media

           VMS Consolidated Software Distribution on
              CDROM: QA-VWJ8A-A8

           Additional Documentation Sets

           Base Documentation Set: QA-09SAA-GZ
           Extended Documentation Set: QA-001AA-GZ
           DECwindows User Kit Documentation:[1]
              QA-09SAB-GZ
           DECwindows Programmers Kit Documentation:
              QA-001AM-GZ
           VMS Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc:
              QA-VYR8A-G8

           [1]Included in both VMS Base Documentation and Extended Doc-
           umentation Sets.

           Software Product Services

           Software Support Service:[2] QT-001A*-**

           [2]A variety of integrated and a la carte Hardware and Soft-
           ware Products are available. For additional information, please
           contact your local office.

           Media and Documentation Update Service

           With Base Documentation Set: QT-09SA*-E*
           With Extended Documentation Set: QT-001A*-E*

           Additional Media Update Service

           VMS Consolidated Software Distribution on
              CDROM: QT-VWJ8A-C8

           Documentation Only Update Service

                                      42

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Base Documentation Set: QT-09SAA-KZ
           Extended Documentation Set: QT-001AA-KZ
           DECwindows Programmers Kit Documentation:
              QT-001AM-KZ
           VMS Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc:
              QT-VYR8A-C8

           The Software Media and Extended Documentation Set (QA-001A*-
           H*) is recommended for users managing high-end VAX systems,
           e.g., VAX 8600 or VAX 8830, VAXcluster systems, or DECnet-VAX
           networks. The Software Media and Base Documentation Set (QA-
           09SA*-H*) is recommended for managers of small standalone
           systems and for general end-users.

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services, and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           The VMS software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital's Standard Terms and Conditions.

           The VMS license also includes the license for the VAX Rdb/VMS
           Run-Time Option. This allows the running of an application
           developed using VAX Rdb/VMS. However, VAX Rdb/VMS has sep-
           arate media and documentation. In addition, should a user
           want to perform Rdb development, a separate license must be
           purchased. Refer to SPD 25.59.xx for further information.

           Integral to VMS is support for the VMS DECwindows desktop
           environment. VMS DECwindows is based on the X User Inter-
           face (XUI) and is delivered as a component of the VMS Op-
           erating System, requiring no separate license. Additionally,
           Digital offers a new separately orderable layered product
           called VMS DECwindows Motif. VMS DECwindows Motif provides
           support for both OSF/Motif, an open standard that is the new




                                      43

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           default user interface, and the X User Interface in a sin-
           gle run-time and development environment. Refer to the VMS
           DECwindows Motif SPD (SPD 36.09.xx) for more information.

           Customers who wish to run DECwindows over TCP/IP need only
           purchase the VMS/ULTRIX Connection product media and doc-
           umentation kit. A separate license is not required. Customers
           who want to utilize the full VMS/ULTRIX Connection function-
           ality (FTP, NFS, TELNET) do need to purchase a separate li-
           cense. Refer to the VMS/ULTRIX Connection System Support Ad-
           dendum (SSA 25.A4.xx-x) for required versions.

           Please see the Third Party Licensing section in Appendix C
           for information regarding the Adobe licensing.

           The System Integrated Products (SIPs), VAXcluster Software
           (SPD 29.78.xx), DECnet-VAX (SPD 25.03.xx), VAX Volume Shadowing
           (SPD 27.29.xx), and VAX RMS Journaling (SPD 27.58.xx) are
           separately licensed products. Please refer to the appropri-
           ate product's SPD for more information.

           VMS License Information

           The VMS Operating System uses one of four different types
           of licenses depending on the hardware and software config-
           urations used and currently supported. This information is
           also provided in the applicable country's Price List.

           Digital provides the proper license type with the purchase
           of the system. However, all VMS license types are not avail-
           able for all system models.

           These are the four types of VMS licenses:

           1. VMS Availability License

              This type of license provides unlimited use to the users
              on a defined system. These licenses are sometimes referred
              to as capacity licenses. VMS availability licenses are
              sized according to system type.

                                      44

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           2. VMS Multiuser License

              This type of license provides use according to a spec-
              ified number of concurrent users. This is an activity-
              based license. The Operating System User License provides
              the customer with the right to use the operating system
              up to the limit of users specified in the license. An Op-
              erating System "User" is a person who is logged onto the
              system and is using the system interactively. Interac-
              tive use of the operating system includes the display of
              information upon any video or hardcopy display product
              whether in a DECwindows/X Windows environment or other-
              wise.

           3. VMS Workstation License

              This type of license provides use for a single user on
              a VAX Workstation.

           4. VMS File and Application Server License

              This type of license provides for the non-interactive use
              of VMS.

           VAX VMS-based VAXservers are sold with a VMS File and Ap-
           plication Server License. The intent of a VAX VMS-based VAXserver
           is to provide file, print, application, and compute "ser-
           vices" to "clients" who have remotely submitted their re-
           quests (for example via network/remote submit/batch jobs,
           etc.).

           The software licensing implications are that no direct op-
           erating system log-ons are intended on the VAX VMS-based VAXserver.
           One direct log-on is allowed for system management purposes
           only.






                                      45

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           While remote submission of VAX VMS-based layered products
           for execution on a VAX VMS-based VAXserver is allowed, in-
           teractive use (direct log-on and execution) of VAX VMS-based
           layered products is prohibited.

           All VMS licenses provide the right to use only the VMS fea-
           tures, functionality, and facilities provided by the cur-
           rent version license. Any features, functionality, and fa-
           cilities not specifically licensed in the purchased version
           of VMS may not be used if a prior version kit containing such
           unlicensed features is installed.

           Not all VMS license types are available for all versions of
           VMS or all VAX models.

           License Management Facility Support

           The VMS Operating System supports the License Management Fa-
           cility.

           If no VMS license is registered and activated using the Li-
           cense Management Facility, then a single login is permit-
           ted for system management purposes through the system con-
           sole (OPA0:).

           Several of the VMS license types are based on the number of
           concurrent users, called an activity license. Every prod-
           uct has the option to define an activity as related to the
           License Management Facility. VMS defines activities, some-
           times referred to as VMS "users," as follows:

           o  Each remote terminal connection is considered an activ-
              ity. This is true even if you set host to your local node
              (SET HOST 0).

           o  Each connection from a terminal server is considered an
              activity.

           o  A multiple-window session on a workstation is considered
              one activity, regardless of the number of windows.

           o  A batch job is not considered an activity.

                                      46

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           o  A remote network connection that is a connection other
              than a remote terminal connection, is not considered an
              activity.

           For more information about Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.


           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD and the ap-
           plicable Digital Standard Terms and Conditions.

           SUPPORTED HARDWARE FOR VMS, VMS DECwindows, VAXcluster,
           and DECnet-VAX

           This section of the SPD contains four parts: Hardware Charts,
           Appendix A, Appendix B, and Appendix C.

           The charts list the hardware that VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX,
           and VAXcluster Software supports. Combinations of hardware
           options are subject to limitations such as bandwidth, phys-
           ical configuration constraints, and electrical load and power
           supply.

           Appendix A describes system-specific restrictions for the
           configurations listed.

           Appendix B describes Digital terminals, disks, tapes, con-
           trollers, communications options, and VAXcluster options.
           Some restrictions for specific devices are listed if appli-
           cable.


                                      47

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           The content of this hardware configuration appendix is in-
           tended to specify the device limitations and provide a gen-
           eral guide. It does not describe all possible hardware con-
           figurations or circumstances. Any particular configuration
           should be discussed with Digital. Contact Digital for the
           most up-to-date information on possible hardware configu-
           rations.

           Digital reserves the right to change the number and type of
           devices supported by VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX, and
           VAXcluster Software. The minimum hardware requirements for
           future versions and updates of VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX,
           and VAXcluster Software may be different from current hard-
           ware requirements. For configuration details about VAX hard-
           ware, refer to the VAX System and Options Catalog and the
           Networks and Communications Buyers Guide.

           Refer to the individual SPDs for DECnet-VAX (SPD 25.03.xx)
           and VAXcluster Software (SPD 29.78.xx) for detailed prod-
           uct information.

           How to Read the Charts

           The first column lists the VAX system, the media (tape, disk,
           or compact disc) from which the VMS Operating System can be
           loaded onto the system disk, and the maximum number of busses
           supported on the system.

           The second column lists the disk controllers and drives that
           can be used on the system. A disk controller can be used with
           any disk drive listed next to it: for example, on a MicroVAX II
           or VAXstation II system the RQDX3 disk controller can be used
           with an RD52, RD53, RD54, RX50, or RX33 disk drive.

           The third column lists the tape controllers and drives that
           can be used on the system. The tape controller can be used
           with any tape drive listed next to it: for example, on a MicroVAX II
           or VAXstation II system, the TQK50 controller can be used
           with the TK50 tape drive.


                                      48

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           The fourth and fifth columns list the communications and VAX-
           cluster options available for the systems. The listed Eth-
           ernet devices can also be used for network connections.

           The sixth column lists other hardware that can be used and
           the maximum amount of memory allowed on the systems in each
           category.


































                                      49

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           MicroVAX IIKDA50   RA-       TQK50  TK50      Asynch- CXA16*+  DEQNA     DRV11-
                      RQDX2   series*          TK70                       DELQA     WA*
           VAXstation                   TQK70  TS05              CXB16*+  DESQ#     LPV11
           II                 RD51             TU81-                                VCB01-
                              RD52      TSV05  Plus*             CXY08*             KP
           (Load      RQDX3   RD53             RV20*             DZV11              (VsII)
           Media)             RX50      KLESI                    DHV11*             VCB02-
           TK50               RD52                               DHQ11              B
           Magtape            RD53                               DZQ11              (VsII
           RX33##             RD54                       Synch-                     /GPX)
           CDROM      KRQ50   RX50                               DMV11              VCB02-
                              RX33                               DSV11              D
           (BUSSES)   KLESI   RRD50                                                 (VsII
                      KFQSA   RRD40                                                 /GPX)
           1 Q-bus            RC25                                                  RQDXE
           2                  (DSSI)
           DSSI**             RF30                                                  16
                              RF71                                                  MB Max
                                                                                    Mem

           * Can be used on a MicroVAX II system only.
           ** Only available via the KFQSA.
           + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
           # Only available with BA200-series enclosures.
           ## VMS distribution on this media has been re-
           tired.___________________________________________________









                                      50

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35











































                                      51

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           MicroVAX   Integral RD32     TZK50  TK50      Asynch- DST32*+  Integral  VS40X
           2000               RD53                                                  (Vs2000)
           VAXstation         RD54                               DSH32
           2000               RX33
                                                         Synch-  DST32*+            14
           (Load                                                                    MB Max
           Media)                                                DSH32*             Mem
           TK50
           RX33#

           (BUSSES)

           N/A

           * Can be used on a MicroVAX 2000 system only.
           # VMS distribution on this media has been retired.
           + Concurrent use of the DST32 and the DHT32 is not supported. Supports Display
           PostScript.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           MicroVAX   Integral RX23     TKZ50  TK50Z     DSH32            Integral  32 MB
           3100               RZ23             TZ30                                 Max
           VAXserver          RZ24             TLZ04     (1                         Mem
           3100               RZ25             TZK10     sync.
           Models             RZ55                       & 8
           10/10e             RZ56                       async.
           20/20e             RZ57                       lines)
                              RRD40
           (Load              RRD42
           Media*)            RX26
           TK50               RZ23L
           CDROM

           (BUSSES)

           Integral
           SCSI

           * Factory-loaded software on all configurations that include RZ23L, RZ24, and
           RZ25 internal disks.       52

           ________________________________________________________________________________

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           MicroVAX   Integral RX33+           TK50Z             DHW41-   Integral  Models
           3100               RZ24             TZ30              AA                 30/40
           Models             RZ25             TLZ04             DHW41-             32 MB
           30/40              RZ55+            TZK10             BA                 Max
           /80                RZ56+                              DHW42-             Mem
                              RZ57+                              AA
           (Load              RZ58+                              DHW42-             Model
           Media*)            RRD42++                            BA                 80
           TK50                                                  DHW42-             72 MB
           CDROM              RX26                               UP                 Max
                              RZ23L                              DHW42-             Mem
           (BUSSES)                                              CA
                                                                 DSW41-
           Integral                                              AA
                                                                 DSW42-
           SCSI                                                  AA

           *Factory-loaded software on all configurations that include RZ23L, RZ24, and
           RZ25 internal disks
           +External device only
           ++External/Internal_for_Models_40_and_80._External_only_for Model 30.














                                      53

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAXstation Integral RZ22     IntegralTK50Z                     Integral  WS01X
           3100               RZ23             TZ30                                 VCB02
           Series             RZ24                                                  Graph-
                              RZ55                                                  ics
           (Load              RZ56                                                  VS40X-
           Media)             RRD40                                                 PA
           TK50               RX23                                                  Graph-
           CDROM                                                                    ics
                                                                                    Coprocessor
           (BUS)
           SCSI
                                                                                    32
                                                                                    MB Max
                                                                                    Mem

           Supports Display PostScript.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAXstation RQDX3   RD53      TQK50  TK50      Asynch- DHV11    DELQA     Graphics
           3200               RD54             TS05              DZQ11              Sub-
                      KRQ50   RRD40     TSV05                                       system
           (Load              RRD50                              DSV11              for
           Media)                                        Synch-                     the
           TK50                                                                     Vs3200
           CDROM
                                                                                    32MB
           (BUS)                                                                    Max
           1 Q-bus                                                                  Mem

           Supports Display PostScript.

           ________________________________________________________________________________







                                      54

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           MicroVAX   Integral RF30     TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+             52 MB
           3300               RF31             TK50              CXB16+             Max
           /3400              RF31F     TQK50  TF85              CXY08              Mem
           VAXserver          RF71             TF857
           3300       KFQSA   RF72      KFQSA  TS05              DSV11
           /3400              RRD40            TU81-     Synch-
                      KRQ50   RRD50            Plus
           (Load              RRD42     TSV05
           Media)     KZQSA   TLZ04
           TK50               RA-       KLESI
           CDROM      KDA50   series
           Magtape

           (BUSSES)

           1 DSSI*
           1 Q-bus

           * Second DSSI available only via the KFQSA.
           + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
           Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
           options._________________________________________________













                                      55

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35











































                                      56

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           MicroVAX   RQDX3   RD53*     TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DELQA     Graphics
           3500               RD54*            TK50              CXB16+   DESQA     Sub-
           VAXserver  KDA50   RA-       TQK50  TS05              CXY08              system
           3500       KRQ50   series           TF85                                 for
           VAXstation         RRD40     TSV05  TF857             DSV11              the
           3500       KZQSA   RRD50            TU81-     Synch-                     Vs3500
                              RRD42            Plus
           (Load      KFQSA   TLZ04                                                 64MB
           Media)             RF30      KFQSA                                       Max
           TK50               RF31                                                  Mem
           Magtape            FR31F     KLESI
           CDROM              RF71
                              RF72      RV20
           (BUSSES)

           1 Q-bus
           1 DSSI
           **

           * Available on MicroVAX 3500 system only.
           + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
           ** Only available via the KFQSA. Supports Display
           PostScript.
           Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
           options.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAXstation I/O     RZ55      TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   Integral  Graphic
           3520       Adapter RZ56                               CXB16+             Subsys-
           VAXstation         RRD40                              CXY08
           3540                                                                     tem
                                                                 DSV11              for
           (Load                                         Synch-                     the
           Media)                                                                   Vs3520
           TK50                                                                     /3540
           CDROM                                                                    VCB03
                                                                                    op-
           (BUSSES)                                                                 tional
                                                                                    graph-
           1 SCSI                     57                                            ics
           1 Q-bus
                                                                                    64MB
                                                                                    Max
                                                                                    Mem

           Supports Display PostScript.
           + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
           Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
           options.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           MicroVAX   KDA50   RA-       TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DELQA     64 MB
           3600       KRQ50   series           TK50              CXB16+   DESQA     Max
           VAXserver          RRD40     TQK50  TS05              CXY08              Mem
           3600       KZQSA   RRD50            TU81-
           VAXserver          RRD42     TSV05  Plus              DSV11
           3602       KFQSA   TLZ04            RV20      Synch-
                              RF30      KLESI  TF85
           (Load              RF31             TF857
           Media)             RF31F     KFQSA
           TK50               RF71
           Magtape            RF72
           CDROM

           (BUSSES)

           1 Q-bus
           1
           DSSI**

           + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
           ** Only available via the KFQSA.
           Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
           options._________________________________________________












                                      58

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35











































                                      59

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           MicroVAX   KFQSA   RF30      TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DESQA     64 MB
           3800               RF31             TK50              CXB16+   DELQA     Max
           VAXserver          RF31F     TQK50  TS05              CXY08              Mem
           3800               RF71             TU81-
                              RF72      TSV05  Plus              DSV11
           (Load      KRQ50   RRD40            TF85      Synch-
           Media)             RRD50     KLESI  TF857
           TK50       KZQSA   RRD42
           CDROM              TLZ04     KFQSA
                      KDA50   RA-
           (BUSSES)           series

           1 Q-bus
           1 DSSI*

           * Only available via the KFQSA.
           + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
           Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
           options.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           MicroVAX   KDA50   RA-       TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DESQA     64 MB
           3900       KRQ50   series           TK50              CXB16+   DELQA     Max
           VAXserver          RRD40     TQK50  TU81-             CXY08              Mem
           3900       KZQSA   RRD50            Plus
                              RRD42     KLESI  TS05              DSV11
           (Load      KFQSA   TLZ04            TF85      Synch-
           Media)             RF30      TSV05  TF857
           TK50               RF31
           CDROM              RF31F     KFQSA
           Magtape            RF71
                              RF72
           (BUS)
           1 Q-bus
           1 DSSI*

           * Only available via the KFQSA.
           + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
           Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
           options.                   60

           ________________________________________________________________________________

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35











































                                      61

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAXstation Integral RZ22     IntegralTK50Z    Synch-  DSW21    Integral  PV21X
           4000*              RZ23             TZ30              DWCTX-   (Eth-     (Model
           Models             RZ24             TZK10             BX       ernet)    60)
           60/VLC             RZ25                               (TURBO             Graph-
                              RZ55                               chan-              ics
           (Load              RZ56                               nel                PV31G
           Media)             RRD40                              adapter)           (VLC)
           TK50               RX23                                                  Graph-
           CDROM              RZ57                                                  ics
                              TLZ04                                                 PV61G
           (BUS)              RZ58                                                  (Model
           SCSI               RX26                                                  60)
                              RX33                                                  Graph-
                              RRD42                                                 ics
                                                                                    VSXXX-
                                                                                    AA
                                                                                    mouse
                                                                                    VSXXX-
                                                                                    GA
                                                                                    mouse
                                                                                    VSX10
                                                                                    dial
                                                                                    /button
                                                                                    box
                                                                                    VSX20
                                                                                    button
                                                                                    box
                                                                                    VSX30
                                                                                    dial
                                                                                    box
                                                                                    LK201
                                                                                    LK401

                                                                                    VLC
                                                                                    24 MB
                                      62                                            Max
                                                                                    Mem

                                                                                    Model
                                                                                    60
                                                                                    104
                                                                                    MB Max
                                                                                    Mem

           *Factory-loaded software on all configurations that include internal disks
           (RZ231,_RZ24,_and_RZ25)__________________________________

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAX-11     UDA50   RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA+    CR11
           /730       RK711   series    TUK50  TU80              DZ11     DELUA+    DR11-W
                      RL211   RK07             TU81              DZ32               DMF32-
           (Load      RX211   RL02      KLESI  TU81-             DMZ32              LP
           Media)     RUX50   RX02             Plus              DHU11              LP11
           RL02*      (IntegraRX50                                                  LPA11
           Magtape                                               DMF32              FP730
                      IDC     RL02                       Synch-  DMR11
           (BUS)              R80                                                   5
           1                                                                        MB Max
           UNIBUS                                                                   Mem

           * VMS distribution on this media has been retired.
           + VAX-11/730 systems are not supported in VAXclus-
           ter systems.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAX-11     UDA50   RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA     DMF32-
           /750       RK711   series    KLESI  TU80              DZ11     DELUA     LP
                      RL211   RK07             TU81              DZ32     (CI)      DR11-W
           (Load      RX211   RL02             TU81-             DMZ32    CI750     DR750
           Media)     KLESI   RX02             Plus              DHU11              DW750
           RL02*      RUX50   RC25             RV20                                 FP750
           RK07*              RX50      TUK50  TK50              DMF32              H7112
           RA60*              RM03             TA-       Synch-  DMR11              KU750
           Magtape            RM05             series                               LPA11
                              RM80      (CI)                                        RH750
           (BUSSES)           RP06      HSC                                         LP11
                      (CI)    RP07      TM03   TE16
           2          HSC               TM78   TU77                                 14
           UNIBUS             ESE-20           TU78                                 MB Max
           3 MASS-            RA-                                                   Mem
           BUS                series

           * VMS is not distributed on this media type.

           ________________________________________________________________________________


                                      63

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAX-11     UDA50   RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA     DM32-
           /780       RK711   series    KLESI  TU80              DZ11     DELUA     FP
           VAX-11     RL211   RK06             TU81              DMZ32    (CI)      DR11-W
           /785       RX211   RK07             TU81-             DHU11    CI780     DR780
                      KLESI   RL02             Plus                                 DW780
           (Load      RUX50   RX02             RV20              DMF32              H7112
           Media)             RC25      TUK50  TK50      Synch-  DMR11              FP780**
           RK07*              RX50             TA-
           RA60*              RM03             series                               FP785***
           Magtape            RM05      (CI)
                              RM80      HCS                                         KE780**
           (BUSSES)           RP05      TM03   TE16
                              RP06      TM78   TU45                                 KU780**
           4          (CI)    RP07             TU77
           UNIBUS     HCS                      TU78                                 RH780
           4 MASS-            ESE-20                                                LP11
           BUS                RA-
                              series                                                64
                                                                                    MB Max
                                                                                    Mem

           * VMS is not distributed on this media.
           ** These options are used on the VAX-11/780 only.
           ***_Used_on_the_VAX-11/785.______________________________











                                      64

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAXft      KFE52   RF31      KFE52  TF70      Synch-  DSF32    Integral  128
           Models             RF72                                                  MB Max
           110/310                                                                  Mem

           (Load
           Media)
           TK50
           CDROM
           via
           InfoS-
           erver

           (Busses)

           2 DSSI

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAXft      KFE52   RF31      KFE52  TF70      Synch-  DSF32    Integral  256
           Models             RF72             TF85                                 MB Max
           410/610            RF73      (Model TF857                                Mem
           /                            610
           612                          /612
                                        only)
           (Load
           Media)                       KFQSA
           TK50
           CDROM
           via
           InfoS-
           erver

           (Busses)

           2 DSSI

           ________________________________________________________________________________



                                      65

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAX        Integral RF30     TQK50  RSV20     Asynch- CXA16+   Integral  64 MB
           4000       &       RF31             TF85              CXB16+             Max
           Model      KFQSA   RF31F     TQK70  TF857             CXY08    DELQA     Mem
           200                RF35             TLZ04                      DESQA
                              RF71      TSV05  TS05              DPV11
           (Load              RF72             TSZ07     Synch-  DSV11
           Media)             RF73      KLESI  TK50
           TK50               RA-              TK70
           CDROM      KDA50   series    KZQSA  TU81-
                      KRQ50   RRD40            Plus
           (BUS)      KZQSA   RRD42     Integral
           1 Q-bus                      &
           4 DSSI                       KFQSA

           Note:_Factory_loaded_software_on_all_configurations_that_contain a disk.




















                                      66

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAX        Integral RF30     TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   Integral  256
           4000       &       RF31             TS05                                 MB Max
           Model      KFQSA   RF71      TQK50  TU81-             CXB16+   DESQA     Mem
           300                RF31F            Plus      Synch-  CXY08    DELQA
                              RF72      TSV05  TK50              DSV11
           (Load              RF73             RSV20             DPV11
           Media)             RF25      KLESI  TLZ04
           TK50               RA-              TSZ07
           CDROM      KDA50   series    KZQSA  TF85
                      KRQ50                    TF857
           (BUS)      KZQSA   RRD40     Integral
           1 Q-bus            RRD42     &
           4 DSSI                       KFQSA

           Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAX        Integral RF30     TQK50  RSV20     Asynch- CXA16+   Integral  512
           4000       &       RF31             TF85                                 MB Max
           Model      KFQSA   RF31F     TQK70  TF857             CXB16+   DELQA     Mem
           500                RF35             TLZ04     Synch-  CXY08    DESQA
                              RF71      TSV05  TS05              DPV11
           (Load              RF72             TSZ07             DSV11
           Media)             RF73      KLESI  TK50
           TK50               RA-              TK70
           CDROM      KDA50   series    KZQSA  TU81-
                      KRQ50   RRD40            Plus
           (BUS)      KZQSA   RRD42     Integral
           1 Q-bus                      &
           4 DSSI                       KFQSA

           Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

           ________________________________________________________________________________





                                      67

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAX 6000-  KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA     LP11*
           200        KDM70   series           Plus              DHB32    DEBNI     DMB32-
           Series+    TM32              TBK50  RV20                       DEMNA     LP
           VAXserver  (CI)                     TK50              DMB32    DEMFA     DR11-W*
           6000-      HSC               TBK70  TK70      Synch-  DSB32    (CI)
           210                ESE-20                                      CIBCA-    DWMUA*
           VAXserver          RA-              TA-                        AA        DRB32
           6000-              series    (CI)   series                     CIBCA-
           220                          HSC                               BA
                                        KDM70                             CIXCD-    512
           (Load                                                          AB        MB Max
           Media)                                                                   Mem
           TK50
           Magtape
           CDROM
           via
           InfoS-
           erver

           (BUSSES)

           6 VAXBI
           1
           UNIBUS
           2 VME
           (DWMVA)
           KFMSA

           + Formerly named the VAX 6210, 6220, 6230, 6240.
           * Supported on the VAX 6000-210 and VAX 6000-220
           systems_only.____________________________________________




                                      68

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAX 6000-  KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA     LP11*
           300        KDM70   series           Plus              DHB32    DEBNI     DMB32-
           Series+    TM32              TBK50  TK50                       DEMNA     M
           VAXserver  (CI)                     TK70              DMB32    DEMFA     DR11-W*
           6000-      HSC               TBK70            Synch-  DSB32    (CI)
           310/320            ESE-20           TA-                        CIBCA-    DRB32
                              RA-       (CI)   series                     AA        DWMUA*
           (Load              series    HSC                               CIBCA-
           Media)                       KDM70                             BA        512
           TK50                                                           CIXCD-    MB Max
           Magtape                                                        AB        Mem
           CDROM
           via
           InfoS-
           erver

           (BUSSES)

           6 VAXBI
           1
           UNIBUS*
           2 VME
           (DWMVA)
           KFMSA

           + Formerly named the VAX 6310, 6320, 6330, 6340,
           6360.
           * Supported on the VAX 6000-310 and VAX 6000-320
           systems only.

           ________________________________________________________________________________









                                      69

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAX 6000-  KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU80-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA     LPA11
           400        KDM70   series           Plus              DHB32    DEBNI     DR11-W
           Series     TM32              TBK70  TK70                       DEMNA     FV64A
           VAXserver                           TK50              DMB32    DEMFA     DMB32
           6000-                        TBK50            Synch-  DSB32    (CI)      DRB32
           410/420                             TA-                        CIBCA-
                                        (CI)   series                     BA        512
           (Load                        HSC                               CIXCD-    MB Max
           Media)                                                         AB        Mem
           TK50
           Magtape
           CDROM
           via
           InfoS-
           erver

           (BUSSES)

           6 VAXBI
           1
           UNIBUS
           2 VME
           (DWMVA)
           KFMSA____________________________________________________











                                      70

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35











































                                      71

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAX 6000-  KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU80-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA     LPA11
           500        KDM70   series           Plus              DHB32    DEBNI     DR11-W
           Series     TM32              TBK70  TK70                       DEMNA     FV64A
           VAXserver                           TK50              DMB32    DEMFA     DMB32
           6000-                        TBK50            Synch-  DSB32    (CI)      DRB32
           510/520                             TA-                        CIBCA-
                                        (CI)   series                     BA        512
           (Load                        HSC                               CIXCD-    MB Max
           Media)                                                         AB        Mem
           TK50
           Magtape
           CDROM
           via
           InfoS-
           erver

           (BUSSES)

           6 VAXBI
           2 VME
           (DWMVA)
           KFMSA

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAX 6000-  KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU80-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA     FV64A
           600        KDM70   series           Plus              DHB32    DEBNI     DMB32
           Series     TM32              TBK70  TK70                       DEMNA     DRB32
                                               TK50              DMB32    DEMFA
           (Load                        TBK50            Synch-  DSB32    (CI)      512
           Media)                              TA-                        CIBCA-    MB Max
           TK50                         (CI)   series                     BA
           Magtape                      HSC                               CIXCD-
           CDROM                                                          AB
           via
           InfoS-
           erver

           (BUSSES)

           6 VAXBI                    72
           2 VME
           (DWMVA)
           KFMSA

           ________________________________________________________________________________

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAX 8200   KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA     DMB32-
                      (CI)    series           Plus              DMB32    DEBNI     LP
           VAX 8250   HSC               TM32   RV20              DHU11    DELUA     DR11-W
                              ESE-20    TS11   RV64              DMF32    (CI)      DWBUA
                              RA-       TUK50  TU80              DMZ32    CIBCA-    DRB32
           (Load              series           TU81                       AA        LP11
           Media)                       TBK50  TU81-             DMB32    CIBCA-
           Magtape                             Plus      Synch-  DSB32    BA        128
           RA60*                                                          CIBCI     MB Max
           TK50                         (CI)   TK50                                 Mem
                                        HSC    TA-
           (BUSSES)                            series

           1 VAXBI
           1
           UNIBUS

           * VMS Operating System is not distributed on RA60
           media.___________________________________________________
















                                      73

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAX 8300   KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA     DMB32-
                      (CI)    series           Plus              DMB32    DEBNI     LP
           VAX 8350   HSC               TM32   RV20              DHU11    DELUA     DR11-W
                              ESE-20    TS11   RV64              DMF32    (CI)      DWBUA
                              RA-       TUK50  TU80              DMZ32    CIBCA-    DRB32
           (Load              series           TU81-                      AA        LP11
           Media)                       TBK50  Plus              DMB32    CIBCA-
           Magtape                                       Synch-  DSB32    BA        128
           RA60*                        (CI)   TK50                       CIBCI     MB Max
           TK50                         HSC    TA-                                  Mem
                                               series
           (BUSSES)

           1 VAXBI
           1
           UNIBUS

           * VMS Operating System is not distributed on RA60
           media.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAX        KDB50   RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA     DMB32-
           85xx       (CI)    series           Plus              DMB32    DEBNI     LP
                      HSC                      RV20              DHU11    DELUA     DR11-W
           (Load              ESE-20           RV64              DMF32    (CI)      DWBUA
           Media)             RA-       (CI)                     DMZ32    CIBCA-    DRB32
           Magtape            series    HSC    TA-                        AA        LP11
                                               series            DMB32    CIBCA-
           (BUSSES)                                      Synch-  DSB32    BA        256
                                                                          CIBCI     MB Max
           2 VAXBI                                                                  Mem
           1
           UNIBUS

           ________________________________________________________________________________




                                      74

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAX 8600   UDA50   RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA     DMF32-
                      RL211   series    KLESI  TU80              DZ11     DELUA     LP
           VAX        RX211   RL02             TU81              DZ32     (CI)      DR11-W
           8650       RUX50   RX02      TUK50  TU81-             DMZ32    CI780     DR780
                      KLESI   RX50             Plus              DHU11              DW780
           (Load              RC25                                                  FP86-
           Media)             RM03      (CI)   RV20              DMF32              AA
           Magtape            RM05      HSC    TK50      Synch-  DMR11              RH780
                              RM80             TA-
           (BUSSES)           RP05             series                               260
                              RP06      TM03   TE16                                 MB Max
           7          (IntegraRP07      RM78   TU77                                 Mem
           UNIBUS     IDTC                     TU78
           6 MASS-    (CI)    RA60      IDTC   TU81
           BUS        HSC     RA80
           2 SBI              RA81
                              RA82
                              ESE-20
                              RA-
           ___________________series________________________________















                                      75

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35











































                                      76

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           VAX        KD850   RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA     DMB32-
           8700       (CI)    series           Plus              DMB32    DEBNI     LP
           VAX        HSC                      RV20              DMF32    DELUA     DR11-W
           8800               ESE-20           RV64              DMZ32    (CI)      DRB32
                              RA-       (CI)                              CIBCA-    DWBUA
           (Load              series    HSC    TA-               DMB32    AA        LP11
           Media)                              series    Synch-  DSB32    CIBCA-
           Magtape                                                        BA        512
                                                                          CIBCI     MB Max
           (BUSSES)                                                                 Mem

           4 VAXBI
           2
           UNIBUS

           ________________________________________________________________________________

           VAX        KD850   RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA     DMB32-
           8810*      (CI)    series           Plus              DHB32    DEBNI     LP
           VAX        HSC                      RV20                       (CI)      DR11-W
           8820               ESE-20           RV64              DMB32    CIBCA-    DWBUA
           VAX                RA-                        Synch-  DSB32    AA        DRB32
           8830               series                                      CIBCA-    LP11
           VAX                                                            BA
           8840                                                           CIBCI**   512
                                                                                    MB Max
           (Load                                                                    Mem
           Media)
           Magtape

           (BUSSES)

           6 VAXBI
           1
           UNIBUS

           * The VAX 8810 can support a maximum of 4 VAXBIs.
           ** Supported only on the VAX 8810.

           ________________________________________________________________________________

                                      77

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35

           _________________________________________________________
                                                                          Options   Miscellaneous
           System          Disks             Tapes        Communication   (LAN
                      ________________  _______________       (WAN)       /CI)

           ___________CTRL____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE________________

           VAX 9000-  KDM70   RA-       KLESI  RV20      Asynch- DMB32    DEMNA     DRB32-
           110/210    (6      series           RV64              (2       (4        M/-E
           VAX 9000-  max)    ESE-20    (2     TA-               max)     max)      /-W/-C
           310/410    (CI)              max)   series    FDDI-   DHB32    (CI)      (2
                      HSC     ESE-20           RF-               (2       CIXCD     max)
           (Load              RA-       KDM70  series            max)     (4        DWMBB-
           Media)             series           TF-               DEMFA    max)      HA/-CA
           Magtape                      KFMSA  series            (4       DEBNI     /-JA
           CDROM                                                 max)     (3        (VAXBI
           via                          (2               Synch-           max)      EXP)
           InfoS-                       max)                     DMB32              KDB50
           erver                                                 DSB32              (2
                                                                                    max)
           (BUSSES)                                                                 DSB32-
                                                                                    M
           1 XMI                                                                    (2
           4 VAXBI                                                                  max)

                                                                                    512
                                                                                    MB Max
                                                                                    Mem

           ________________________________________________________________________________
           NOTE: The VMS software that runs on the MicroVAX console subsystem is licensed
           for use only with standard console activities. No other use is intended or
           implied._________________________________________________









                                      78

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Appendix A

           This appendix describes some restrictions to the system con-
           figurations listed in the charts. See the VAX System and Op-
           tions Catalog and the Network and Communications Buyers Guide
           for details of VAX hardware configurations.

           MicroVAX I/VAXstation I Systems

           The final version of VMS that supports these systems is VMS
           V5.1-1.

           MicroVAX II System

           The CX-series boards and DESQA controller can be used in a
           BA213 cabinet only.

           MicroVAX 2000 and VAXstation 2000 Systems

           DECnet-VAX supports only one asynchronous data/modem RS-232C
           serial line up to 9600 baud on the integral 4 line asynchronous
           controller.

           VAXserver 3602 System

           The VAXserver 3602 is two VAXserver 3600 systems.

           VAX-11/725

           VMS V5.1 was the final version to support the VAX-11/725.

           VAX-11/730 System

           The VAX-11/730 system supports additional memory to a max-
           imum of 5 MB for systems configured with R80/RL02 or dual
           RL02 disks. Other VAX-11/730 system configurations support
           a maximum of 3 MB of memory for the VAX-11/730 only.

           A maximum of two RL02 disk drives can be added to the dual
           RL02 and the R80/RL02 configuration for VAX-11/730 only.

           The VAX-11/730 system supports one UNIBUS magnetic tape sub-
           system.

                                      79

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Refer to the Hardware System and Options Catalog for the dif-
           ferent hardware options supported on these systems.

           The VMS DECwindows environment is not supported on these sys-
           tems.

           Appendix B

           This appendix describes Digital Equipment Corporation ter-
           minals, disks, tapes, controllers, communications options,
           and VAXcluster options.

           Terminals and Terminal Line Interfaces

           To prevent input from overflowing a buffer, terminals use
           the ASCII control characters DC1 and DC3 for synchroniza-
           tion as defined by Digital's DEC STD 111, Revision A.

           The following table lists the terminals that are supported
           by VMS:

           VT52          VT100-       LA-series
                         series

           VT300-        VT1000-      LQP02
           series        series

                         VT200-
                         series

           Terminals on Professional 350, Rainbow 100, and DECmate II
           systems emulate VT100 terminals.

           Only limited support is available for the VT52. The VT131,
           when running an application, operates in block mode. When
           interacting with VMS and its associated utilities, the VT131
           only operates in VT100 (or interactive) mode and not in block
           mode.



                                      80

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Note: The VT1000 is a monochrome windowing terminal that sup-
           ports standard ANSI applications and "X" windows. The trans-
           port protocols supported are LAT for VMS. The product sup-
           ports 15 inch and 19 inch monitors.

           Disks

           To support full VMS, a system disk of greater than 100 MB
           is recommended. To support full VMS and full VMS DECwindows,
           a system disk of greater than 115 MB is recommended. When
           a smaller disk is used, additional tailoring is required prior
           to installing some VMS and VMS DECwindows options. This does
           not include the dump file space. Refer to the Upgrade and
           Installation Procedures Manual for information on tailor-
           ing. For the disks that have been introduced since the last
           edition of the VMS Operating System SPD, the minimum required
           version of VMS for these disks is listed.

           ESE-20    120 MB solid      (MSCP)
                     state disk
                     drive.

           RA60      205 MB removable  (MSCP)
                     disk drive.

           RA70      280 MB fixed      (MSCP)
                     disk drive.

           RA71      700 MB fixed      (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
                     disk drive.

           RA72      1 GB fixed disk   (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
                     drive.

           RA80      128 MB fixed      (MSCP)
                     disk drive.

           RA81      456 MB fixed      (MSCP)
                     disk drive.

           RA82      622 MB fixed      (MSCP)
                     disk drive.

                                      81

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           RA90      1.2 GB fixed      (MSCP)
                     disk drive.

           RA92      1.5 GB fixed      (MSCP)
                     disk drive.

           RC25*     2 disks each 26   (Q-bus, UNIBUS)
                     MB (1 fixed and
                     1 removable)
                     disk drive with
                     shared spindle.

           RD32*     VAX 42 MB fixed
                     disk drive for
                     MicroVAX 2000
                     and VAXstation
                     2000.

           RD51*     10 MB fixed disk  (Q-bus)
                     drive.

           RD52*     31 MB fixed disk  (Q-bus)
                     drive.

           RD53*     71 MB fixed disk  (Q-bus, or Integral Con-
                     drive.            troller on MicroVAX 2000)

           RD54      159 MB fixed      (Q-bus, or Integral Con-
                     disk drive.       troller on MicroVAX 2000)

           RF30      150 MB fixed      (DSSI)
                     disk drive.

           RF31F     200 MB fixed      (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
                     disk drive.

           RF31-JA   381 MB shock-     (DSSI)
                     mounted re-
                     movable disk
                     drive.

           RF31-KA   381 MB fixed      (DSSI)
                     disk drive.

                                      82

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           RF35      800 MB fixed      (DSSI) (V5.5)
                     disk drive.

           RF71      400 MB fixed      (DSSI)
                     disk drive.

           RF73      2 GB fixed disk   (DSSI) (V5.5)
                     drive.

           RK06*     14 MB removable   (UNIBUS)
                     disk drive.

           RK07*     28 MB removable   (UNIBUS)
                     disk drive.

           RL02*     10 MB removable   (UNIBUS)
                     disk drive.

           RM03+     67 MB removable   (MASSBUS)
                     disk drive.

           RM05      256 MB removable  (MASSBUS)
                     disk drive.

           RM80      124 MB fixed      (MASSBUS)
                     disk drive.

           R80**     124 MB fixed
                     disk drive for
                     VAX-11/725 and
                     VAX-11/730.

           RRD40*    600 MB read-only  (Q-bus and SCSI)
                     optical disk
                     drive.

           RRD42     600 MB read-only  (SCSI) (V5.4-2)
                     optical disk
                     drive.

           RRD50*    600 MB read-only  (Q-bus)
                     optical disk
                     drive.

                                      83

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           RP05**    88 MB removable   (MASSBUS)
                     disk drive.

           RP06      176 MB removable  (MASSBUS)
                     disk drive.

           RP07      516 MB fixed      (MASSBUS)
                     disk drive.
                     (2.2 MB/sec
                     transfer rate is
                     supported if the
                     RH780 is at REV
                     B1 or greater
                     for the VAX-11
                     /780, VAX-11
                     /785, VAX 8600
                     and VAX 8650.)

           RX02*     512 KB diskette   (UNIBUS)
                     drive. The RX02
                     drive also
                     writes using
                     single-density
                     RX01 diskettes.

           RX23      1.47 MB diskette  (SCSI)
                     drive.

           RX26      2.8 MB diskette   (SCSI) (V5.5)
                     drive.

           RX33*     1.2 MB diskette   (Q-bus, or Integral Con-
                     drive. Requires   troller on MicroVAX 2000)
                     minimum RQDX3
                     microcode of
                     V3.0.

           RX50*     400 KB diskette   (Q-bus, or Integral Con-
                     drive.            troller on MicroVAX 2000)

                                      84

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           RV20*     2 GB Write        (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
                     Once Read Many
                     optical disk
                     drive.

           RV64*     2 GB Write        (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
                     Once Read Many
                     optical disk
                     sub-system.

           RZ22*     52 MB fixed disk  (SCSI)
                     drive.

           RZ23**    104 MB fixed      (SCSI)
                     disk drive.

           RZ23L     121 MB fixed      (SCSI) (V5.4-1)
                     disk drive.

           RZ24      209 MB fixed      (SCSI)
                     disk drive.

           RZ25      425 MB fixed      (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
                     disk drive.

           RZ55      332 MB fixed      (SCSI)
                     disk drive.

           RZ56      665 MB fixed      (SCSI)
                     disk drive.

           RZ57      1 GB fixed disk   (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
                     drive.

           RZ58      1.35 GB fixed     (SCSI) (V5.5)
                     disk drive.

           *   Device cannot be used as a VMS system disk.

           **  Device cannot be used as a VMS system disk with VMS
               DECwindows environment.

           Disk Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise In-
           tegration Center (SEIC)

                                      85

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           RF30-RA   150 MB removable  (DSSI)
                     disk drive.

           RF31-RA   381 MB removable  (DSSI)
                     disk drive.

           RF71-RA   400 MB removable  (DSSI)
                     disk drive.

           RF71-RA   1 GB removable    (DSSI)
                     disk drive.

           RWZ01     594 MB optical    (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
                     removable disk
                     drive.

           Tapes

           TA78      STI TU78.         (MSCP)

           TA79      STI TU79.         (MSCP)

           TA81      STI TU81.         (MSCP)

           TA90      1.2 GB, tape      (MSCP)
                     cartridge sub-
                     system. (5
                     inch 200 MB
                     cartridge)

           TA90E     1.2 GB tape       (MSCP)
                     cartridge sub-
                     system. Compacts
                     data records
                     automatically.

           TA91      High performance  (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
                     tape drive.

           TE16      9-track magnetic  (MASSBUS)
                     tape drive.

           TF70      290 MB TK70 tape  (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
                     cartridge drive.

                                      86

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           TF85      2.6 GB streaming  (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
                     tape cartridge
                     drive.

           TF857     18.2 GB tape      (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
                     cartridge
                     loader.

           TK50      95 MB, 5 1/4      (Q-bus and SCSI)
                     inch streaming
                     tape cartridge
                     drive.

           TK70      296 MB, 5 1/4     (Q-bus)
                     inch streaming
                     tape cartridge
                     drive.

           TLZ04     4 GB, 3.5 inch,   (SCSI)
                     4 mm tape drive.

           TS11      9-track magnetic  (UNIBUS)
                     tape drive.

           TU77      9-track magnetic  (MASSBUS)
                     tape drive.

           TU78      9-track magnetic  (MASSBUS)
                     tape drive.

           TU80      9-track magnetic  (UNIBUS)
                     tape drive.

           TU81      9-track magnetic  (UNIBUS)
                     tape drive.

           TU81-     Streaming 9-      (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
           Plus      track magnetic
                     tape drive.

           TZ30      95 MB, 5 1/4      (SCSI)
                     inch, half-
                     height, tape
                     drive.

                                      87

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           TZK10     320/525 MB QIC    (SCSI) (V5.4-2)
                     (quarter inch
                     cartridge) tape
                     drive.

           Tape Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise In-
           tegration Center (SEIC)

           TLZ08     5.25 inch, 2 GB,  (SCSI)
                     8 mm tape drive.

           TS05      9-track magnetic  (Q-bus)
                     tape drive.

           TSZ05     1600 BPI, 9       (SCSI)
                     track tape
                     drive.

           TSZ07     1600/6250 BPI,    (SCSI) (V5.4-1)
                     tape drive.

           Controllers

           DMB32-    VAXBI DMA parallel high speed line printer
           LP        controller.

           DRB32     High speed general purpose parallel interface
                     for VAXBI (systems).

           DMF32-    Synchronous/Asynchronous communication option
           LP        with printer port for use on UNIBUS based
                     systems.

           HSC40     Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks
                     and TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a mini-
                     mum Version of 5.00.)

           HSC50     Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks
                     and TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a mini-
                     mum Version 4.00.)

                                      88

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           HSC70     Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks
                     and TMSCP tapes. (HSC Software must be a mini-
                     mum Version 5.00.)

           IDC       Integrated Disk Controller for VAX-11/725 and
                     VAX-11/730 systems.

           IDTC      Integral Disk and Tape Controller for VAX 8600
                     and VAX 8650 systems.

           LPA11-K   Microprocessor controller for laboratory ac-
                     quisition I/O devices, accommodating up to two
                     AD11-Ks, one AA11-K, one KW11-K, two AM11-Ks,
                     and five DR11-Ks. One LPA11-K controller is
                     supported per UNIBUS and a maximum of two are
                     supported per system.

           KDA50     Q-bus MSCP disk controller. The KDA50 disk
                     controller supports up to four of the following
                     drives: RA60, RA70, RA80, RA81, and RA82.

           KDB50     VAXBI MSCP disk controller. The KDB50 disk
                     controller supports up to four of the following
                     drives: RA60, RA80, RA81, and RA82.

           KDM70     The KDM70 is an intelligent MSCP/TMSCP mass-
                     storage controller that supports RA Series
                     Disks and Storage Arrays, TA Series Tape, and
                     ESE20.

           KFQSA     Q-bus DSSI bus storage adapter. This adapter
                     allows up to seven DSSI storage devices to at-
                     tach to the DSSI bus. (Six DSSI storage devices
                     are allowed in a Dual-Host Configuration.)

           KLESI     Q-bus, UNIBUS, and VAXBI tape controller for
                     the TU81-Plus, RV20, or RC25.

           KRQ50     Q-bus controller for the RRD40/RRD50 compact
                     disk reader.

                                      89

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           KZQSA     Q-bus to SCSI bus adapter. This adapter allows
                     up to 7 SCSI storage devices to attach to the
                     SCSI bus.

           LP11      UNIBUS parallel high-speed line printer con-
                     troller for the LPxx printers.

           LPV11     Q-bus parallel high-speed line printer con-
                     troller.

           RK711     UNIBUS disk controller for RK07 disk drives.

           RL211     UNIBUS disk controller for the RL02 disk drive.

           RQDXx     Q-bus disk controller for MicroVAX and VAX-
                     station systems. There is an RQDX1, RQDX2, and
                     an RQDX3 controller. The RQDXx disk controller
                     supports as many as four disk units, with each
                     RX50 diskette drive counting as two units.
                     Due to controller limitations, the system
                     supports a maximum of 4 devices; the number
                     of RD/RX devices the system supports depends
                     on the enclosure. The RQDX3 disk controller is
                     required for the RD54 and the RX33 drives.

           RX211     UNIBUS diskette controller for two RX02 drives.
                     One RX211 diskette controller is supported per
                     system.

           RUX50     UNIBUS diskette controller for RX50 drives.
                     One RUX50 diskette controller is supported per
                     system.

           TM03      MASSBUS tape controller for the TE16 and TU77
                     magnetic tape drives.

           TM32      BI-bus 9 track tape controller only with large
                     record support.

           TM78      MASSBUS tape controller for the TU78 magnetic
                     tape drive.

           TQK50     Q-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge
                     tape drive.

                                      90

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           TQK70     Q-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge
                     tape drive.

           TS11      UNIBUS tape controller for the TS11 magnetic
                     tape drive.

           TBK50     BI-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge
                     tape drive.

           TBK70     BI-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge
                     tape drive.

           TUK50     UNIBUS tape controller for the TK50 cartridge
                     tape drive. One TUK50 tape controller is sup-
                     ported per system.

           UDA50     UNIBUS MSCP disk controller. The UDA50 con-
                     troller must have a minimum microcode version
                     of REV 3. The UDA50 controller supports up to 4
                     of the following disk drives: RA60, RA80, RA81,
                     and RA82.

           Controller Options Supported by Digital's Services Enter-
           prise Integration Center (SEIC)

           TSV05     Q-bus tape controller for the TS05 magnetic
                     tape drive.

           TSU05     Unibus tape controller for the TS05 magnetic
                     tape drive.

           MASSBUS Adapter/Tape Subsystems

           These include a MASSBUS adapter, a tape formatter, and a trans-
           port (a TU77 for the TxU77 subsystems, a TE16 transport for
           TxE16 subsystem, or a TU78 for the TEU78 subsystem).

           A maximum of three additional TU77 magnetic tape transports
           can be added to a TxU77 subsystem and a maximum of seven ad-
           ditional TE16 magnetic tape transports can be added to a TxE16
           subsystem. Different magnetic tape transports cannot be mixed
           on the same tape subsystem.

                                      91

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           With disks and magnetic tape transports mixed on the same
           MASSBUS, the following rules apply:

           o  Disks can be added to a magnetic tape subsystem to a max-
              imum of seven additional disks per tape subsystem.

           o  Tapes cannot be added to a disk subsystem.

           Asynchronous Terminal Controllers

           CXA16     16 line serial terminal multiplexer (DEC-423),
                     maximum baud rate supported: 38400. (No modem
                     control) (Q-bus)

           CXB16     16 line serial terminal multiplexer (RS422),
                     maximum baud rate supported: 38400. (No modem
                     control) (Q-bus)

           CXY08     8 line serial terminal multiplexer (RS232),
                     maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (Full modem
                     control) (Q-bus)

           DHB32     16 line asynchronous terminal controller for
                     VAXBI, maximum baud rate supported: 19200.
                     (VAXBI)

           DHF11     32 line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC
                     423), maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (No
                     modem control) (Q-bus)

           DHT32     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC
                     423). (No modem control) (MicroVAX 2000)

           DHQ11     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA
                     RS-232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate sup-
                     ported: 19200. (Full modem control) (Q-bus)

           DHU11     16 line asynchronous terminal controller (RS-
                     232-C), maximum baud rates supported: VMS
                     19200, DECnet-VAX 9600. (Full modem control)
                     (UNIBUS)

                                      92

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           DHV11     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA
                     RS-232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates
                     supported: VMS 19200, DECnet-VAX 9600. (Full
                     modem control) (Q-bus)

           DMB32     8 line asynchronous terminal controller, maxi-
                     mum baud rates supported: VMS 19200, DECnet-VAX
                     9600. (Full modem control) (VAXBI)

           DMF32     8 line asynchronous terminal controller, maxi-
                     mum baud rates supported: VMS supports 19200,
                     DECnet-VAX supports 9600. (Full modem control
                     on first 2 lines) (UNIBUS)

           DMZ32     24 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA
                     RS-232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates
                     supported: VMS 19200, DECnet-VAX 9600. (Modem
                     support dependent on configuration) (UNIBUS)

           DSH32     1 line synchronous (full modem control) and 8
                     line asynchronous (no modem control) communica-
                     tions controller for the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423
                     devices are supported. Maximum baud rates sup-
                     ported: VMS 19.2 KBPS (kilobits/second).

           DZ11      8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA
                     RS-232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate sup-
                     ported: 9600. (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

           DZ32      8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA
                     RS-232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate sup-
                     ported: 9600. (Partial modem control) (UNIBUS)

           DZQ11     4 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA
                     RS-232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate sup-
                     ported: VMS supports 19200, DECnet-VAX supports
                     9600. (Partial modem control) (Q-bus)



                                      93

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           DZV11     4 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA
                     RS-232-C or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate sup-
                     ported: VMS supports 19200, DECnet-VAX supports
                     9600. (Partial modem control) (Q-bus)

           Integral asynchronous serial lines for the MicroVAX 2000 and
           the VAXstation 2000.

           On the MicroVAX 2000, one line is the modem/data line and
           three are data-only lines. On the VAXstation 2000, the lines
           support keyboard, mouse, modem connection, and printer or
           plotter. DECnet-VAX supports all four asynchronous data/modem
           RS-232C serial lines up to 9.6 KBPS on the integral 4 line
           asynchronous controller for MicroVAX 2000.

           Synchronous Controllers

           The VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers software product
           contains the synchronous device drivers and is required when
           using synchronous communication options. Refer to SPD 29.64.xx
           for more information.

           DMB32     Point-to-point synchronous interface. (VAXBI)

           DMC11     High-speed local point-to-point synchronous
                     interface; retired device, no longer offered as
                     an option. (UNIBUS)

           DMF32     Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous inter-
                     face. (UNIBUS)

           DMP11     Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous in-
                     terface; (UNIBUS) retired device, no longer
                     offered as an option.

           DMR11     Remote point-to-point synchronous interface;
                     (UNIBUS) replaces DMC11.

           DMV11     Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous inter-
                     face. (Q-bus)

                                      94

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           DPV11     Synchronous, 1 line, half or full-duplex point-
                     to-point communication interface supporting
                     DDCMP, HDLC, SDLC, or BISYNC protocols.

           DSB32     Two line, multiple protocol, synchronous
                     adapter. (VAXBI)

           DSH32     1 line synchronous (full modem control) and 8
                     line asynchronous (no modem control) communica-
                     tions controller for the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423
                     devices are supported. Maximum baud rates sup-
                     ported: VMS 19.2 KBPS (kilobits/second). 9.6
                     KBPS for MicroVAX 2000, etc.

           DST32     Synchronous single line support for DDCMP up
                     to 9.6 KBPS, full duplex for MicroVAX 2000
                     systems. Concurrent use with the DHT32 is not
                     supported.

           DSV11     Synchronous, 2 line, half or full-duplex point-
                     to-point communication interface supporting
                     DDCMP (1 or 2 lines up to 64 KBPS).

           DSF32     DEC WANcontroller 620 - Two line synchronous
                     communications controller designed specifically
                     for the VAXft 3000 processors, supporting
                     DDCMP. DDCMP is supported at speeds up to 64
                     KBPS per line for a two-line operation.

           Ethernet Options

           DEUNA     Ethernet to UNIBUS controller.

           DELUA     Ethernet to UNIBUS controller. The minimum
                     revision level required is F1.

           DEBNA     Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

           DEBNI     Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

                                      95

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           DEMFA     The DEMFA is a high performance network adapter
                     that connects XMI systems to both Ethernet and
                     IEEE FDDI (Fiber Distributed Data Interconnect)
                     local area networks.

           DEMNA     The DEMNA is a high performance network adapter
                     that connects XMI systems to both the Ethernet
                     and IEEE 802.3 local area networks.

           DESVA     Ethernet controller interface.

           DEQNA     Ethernet controller to Q-bus. The minimum
                     revision level required is K3. All systems
                     utilizing a DEQNA must operate with software
                     data checking enabled. Since AUTOGEN will
                     automatically set the correct parameter, no
                     system management intervention is required. Not
                     supported by VAXcluster software. Not supported
                     for any interfaces except for access using QIO
                     or ALTSTART interfaces.

           DELQA     Ethernet controller to Q-bus. This is the
                     replacement for DEQNA. The minimum revision
                     level required is C3.

           DESQA     Ethernet controller to Q-bus for S-BOX configu-
                     rations.

           KFE52     DSSI/Ethernet Adapter for the VAXft 3000.
                     Minimum of two adapters per system providing
                     redundant connection to the Ethernet and the
                     DSSI buses.

           CI Options

           VAXcluster Software may support multiple CI adapters per sys-
           tem. Refer to the VAXcluster Software Product Description
           (SPD 29.78.xx) for the supported configurations.

           CI750     CI Adapter for VAX-11/750 systems. (Minimum
                     microcode version REV 8.7 is required.)

                                      96

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           CI780     CI Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785,
                     VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems. (Minimum mi-
                     crocode version REV 8.7 is required.)

           CIBCI     CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum mi-
                     crocode version REV 8.7 is required.)

           CIBCA-    Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum
           AA        microcode version REV 7.5 is required.)

           CIBCA-    Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum
           BA        microcode version REV 5.2 is required.)

           CIXCD-    Native CI Adapter for VAX 9xxx XMI systems.
           AA        (Minimum microcode version REV 1.0 is re-
                     quired.)

           CIXCD-    Native CI Adapter for VAX 6xxx XMI systems.
           AB        (Minimum microcode version REV 1.0 is re-
                     quired.)

           Miscellaneous

           CR11      Card reader. One CR11 card reader is supported
                     per system. (UNIBUS)

           DRV11-    General purpose DMA interface. (Q-bus)
           WA

           DR11-W    General purpose high-speed DMA interface - one
                     DR11-W interface supported per UNIBUS.

           DR750     High performance general purpose interface
                     for the VAX-11/750. One DR750 interface is
                     supported per system. This device may not be
                     used in conjunction with the CI750.

           DR780     High performance general purpose interface
                     for the VAX-11/780 and VAX-11/785. One DR780
                     interface is supported per system. On the
                     VAX 8600 and VAX 8650 as many as four per
                     system are permitted provided that the M8297-YA
                     is used.

                                      97

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           DSSI      Digital Storage Systems Interconnect.

           DWBUA     XMI to UNIBUS adapter.

           DWMBA     XMI to BI adapter; also the adapter used to
                     connect the XMI to VAX expander cabinet.

           DWMVA     XMI to VME adapter.

           DW750     UNIBUS Adapter for second UNIBUS for the VAX-11
                     /750 system.

           DW780     UNIBUS Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX 8600 and VAX
                     8650.

           FP730     Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/730
                     system.

           FP750     Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/750
                     system.

           FP780     Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/780
                     system.

           FP785     Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/785
                     system.

           FP86-AA   Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX 8600 and
                     VAX 8650 systems.

           FV64A     Vector Processing option for the VAX 6000-400.

           H7112     Memory battery back-up for VAX-11/750, VAX-11
                     /780, VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 sys-
                     tems. This is required for power-fail/recovery.

           KE780     G and H floating point microcode for the VAX-11
                     /780 system.

           KU780     User-writeable control store for the VAX-11/780
                     system.

           MA780     Multiport shared memory. A multiple version
                     VMS 4.7 and VMS 5.x-n VAXcluster system is
                     not supported if the system is configured with
                     MA780 memory.

           RH750     MASSBUS adapter for the VAX-11/750 system.

                                      98

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35



           RH780     MASSBUS controller for the VAX-11/780, VAX-11
                     /785, VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems.

           SBI       System Backplane Interconnect for the VAX-11
                     /780, VAX-11/785, and I/O BUS for the VAX 8600
                     and VAX 8650 systems.

           SCSI      Small Computer System Interconnect.

           VS40X     4-plane graphics coprocessor.

           WS01X     VAXstation 3100 SPX Graphics option.

           InfoServerInfoServer 100 is a stand-alone Ethernet-
           100       based virtual disk server. The server has
                     locally attached SCSI removable CDROMs and
                     SCSI disk storage. VMS V5.5 supports virtual
                     disk reads. For other features, please refer
                     to the InfoServer 100/150 Software Product
                     Descriptions.

           [R]    PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Sys-
                tems, Inc.

           [TM] Motif and OSF/Motif are trademarks of Open Software
                Foundation, Inc.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, BI, CI, CX, DBMS, DDCMP,
                DECdtm, DECintact, DECmate, DECnet, DECsched-
                uler, DECtp, DECterm, DECwindows, DELUA, DEUNA,
                DEQNA, DRB32, HSC, HSC40, HSC50, HSC70, KDA, KDM,
                KLESI, KRQ50, LAT, LQP02, MASSBUS, MicroVAX, RA, RC,
                Rdb/VMS, RF, RK, RL, RM, RQDX2, RQDX3, RRD50, RUX50,
                RX, TA, TE, TEU78, TK, TM, TS, TQK50, TS05, TU,
                UDA, ULTRIX, UNIBUS, VAX, VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX
                BLISS-32, VAX C, VAX COBOL, VAX FORTRAN, VAX Pascal,
                VAX SCAN, VAXBI, VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXstation,
                VAXserver, VMS, VR150, VR160, VT, and VT1000 are
                trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

                                      99

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           Appendix C

           Third Party Licensing Section

           Adobe Systems Incorporated, License Terms and Agreement

           1. Licensor grants to Licensee a nonexclusive sublicense,
              subject to other provisions hereof (a) to use the PostScript
              Software ("Software") solely for Licensee's own inter-
              nal business purposes on a Single Licensed System; (b)
              to use the digitally-encoded machine-readable outline and
              bitmap programs ("Font Programs") provided by Licensor
              in a special encrypted format ("Coded Font Programs") and
              identified herewith to reproduce and display designs, styles,
              weights, and versions of letters, numerals, characters
              and symbols ("Typefaces" and "Screen Typefaces") solely
              for Licensee's own customary business or personal pur-
              poses on the screen of the Licensed System; and (c) to
              use the trademarks used by Licensor to identify the Coded
              Font Programs and Typefaces reproduced therefrom ("Trade-
              marks"). Licensee may assign its rights under this Agree-
              ment to a licensee of all of Licensee's right, title and
              interest to such Software and Coded Font Programs pro-
              vided the licensee agrees to be bound by all of the terms
              and conditions of this Agreement.

           2. Licensee acknowledges that the Software, Coded Font Pro-
              grams, Typefaces and Trademarks are proprietary to Li-
              censor and its suppliers. Licensee agrees to hold the Soft-
              ware and Coded Font Programs in confidence, disclosing
              the Software and Coded Font Programs only to authorized
              employees having a need to use the Software and Coded Font
              Programs as permitted by this Agreement and to take all
              reasonable precautions to prevent disclosure to other par-
              ties.






                                      100

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           3. Licensee will not make or have made, or permit to be made,
              any copies of the Software or Coded Font Programs or por-
              tions thereof, except as necessary for its use with a sin-
              gle Licensed System hereunder. Licensee agrees that any
              such copies shall contain the same proprietary notices
              which appear on or in the Software or the Coded Font Pro-
              grams.

           4. Except as stated above, this Agreement does not grant Li-
              censee any rights to patents, copyrights, trade secrets,
              trade names, trademarks (whether registered or unregis-
              tered), or any other rights, franchises, or licenses in
              respect of the Software, Coded Font Programs, Typefaces,
              or Trademarks. Licensee will not adapt or use any trade-
              mark or trade name which is likely to be similar to or
              confusing with that of Licensor or any of its suppliers
              or take any other action which impairs or reduces the trade-
              mark rights of Licensor or its suppliers. Any use of the
              Trademarks must identify the applicable ``Trademark Owner''
              set forth in Schedule A hereto as the owner of such Trade-
              marks. At the reasonable request of Licensor, Licensee
              must supply samples of any Typeface identified by a Trade-
              mark.

           5. Licensee agrees that it will not attempt to alter, dis-
              assemble, decrypt or reverse compile the Software or Coded
              Font Programs.

           6. Licensee acknowledges that the laws and regulations of
              the United States restrict the export and re-export of
              commodities and technical data of United States origin,
              including the Software or Coded Font Programs. Licensee
              agrees that it will not export or re-export the Software
              or Coded Font Programs in any form without the appropri-
              ate United States and foreign government licenses. Li-
              censee agrees that its obligations pursuant to this sec-
              tion shall survive and continue after any termination or
              expiration of rights under this Agreement.



                                      101

 



           VMS Operating System, Version 5.5           SPD 25.01.35


           7. The software licensed hereunder is restricted to use to
              generate screen displays on a single Licensed System hav-
              ing a screen resolution of less than 150 dots/per/inch.
              Licensee agrees not to make use of the software, directly
              or indirectly, to print bitmap images with print reso-
              lutions of 150 dots/per/inch or greater, or to generate
              Fonts or Typefaces for use other than with the Licensed
              System. Any failure of Licensee to comply with this pro-
              vision is a material breach of this End User Agreement.
































                                      102
