 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  OpenVMS VAX Operating System, Version 5.5-2      SPD
 25.01.36

 Note: Digital bases a great deal of software development on national
 and international standards. To emphasize this commitment to software
 standards, Digital has revised the name of the VMS Operating System.
 OpenVMS VAX is the new title for the VMS software that runs on Dig-
 ital's VAX processors. All references to VMS in this SPD pertain to
 the new title OpenVMS VAX.

 DESCRIPTION[*]

 VMS is a general-purpose multiuser operating system that supports VAX,
 MicroVAX, VAXstation, and VAXserver series computers in both devel-
 opment and production environments. VMS can be tuned to perform well
 in a wide variety of applications, including compute-intensive, In-
 put/Output (I/O)-intensive, real-time, and combinations of those and
 other environments. (Actual performance depends on the type of VAX com-
 puter, available physical memory, and the number and type of disk and
 tape drives on the system.)

 VMS has well-integrated networking, distributed computing, multipro-
 cessing, and windowing capabilities. VMS contains extensive features
 that promote ease-of-use, improve the productivity of programmers, and
 facilitate system management.

 ____________________
 "Licensee   agrees to only execute Display PostScript[R] on those Dig-
   ital computer systems identified as licensed systems in this Soft-
   ware Product Description, and that in any event licensee agrees not
   to make use of the software directly or indirectly, to print bitmap
   images with print resolutions greater than 150 DPI, or to generate
   fonts or typefaces for use other than with the Digital licensed sys-
   tem." (Terms and Conditions for Display PostScript can be found in

   Appendix C of this Software Product Description (SPD).)

                               DIGITAL                   August 1992

                                                         AE-PT7JA-TE

 

 POSIX Support

 VMS also supports a large number of industry standards, facilitating
 application portability and interoperability. This standards support
 now extends to POSIX (Portable Operating System Interface). POSIX de-
 fines a set of interface standards for various parts of an operating
 system. The POSIX standards and draft standards have been generated
 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) and are
 supported by organizations such as the International Organization for
 Standardization (ISO).

 The VMS Version 5.5-2 environment with VMS POSIX installed includes
 support for the standards and draft standards for the system appli-
 cation programming interface (POSIX 1003.1), shell and utilities (P1003.2),
 and real-time programming (P1003.4).

 VMS POSIX V1.0 was granted National Institute of Standards and Tech-
 nology (NIST) certification in January 1992. This means that VMS POSIX
 has passed the POSIX Conformance Test Suite (PCTS) that tests for con-
 formance to NIST's Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS 151-
 1), which is based on POSIX 1003.1-1988. VMS POSIX conforms to the POSIX
 1003.1-1988 standard as required by FIPS 151-1.

 XPG3 BASE Branding

 The VMS V5.5-2 environment with VMS POSIX Version 1.1 and VAX C Ver-
 sion 3.2 installed extends the support for POSIX standards and draft
 standards to include the X/Open BASE specifications defined in the X
 /Open Portability Guide, Issue 3 (XPG3). The XPG3 BASE specifications
 extend the system application programming interface and shell and util-
 ities offered in the IEEE POSIX standards and draft standards. XPG3
 also includes standards-based internationalization support.

 The VMS environment with VMS POSIX and VAX C installed has been awarded
 the X/Open XPG3 BASE brand. Platforms and components that successfully
 complete the branding process and pass X/Open Verification Test Suite
 for XPG3 (VSX3) are awarded the X/Open XPG3 brand. Components must pass
 a series of more than 5500 tests in VSX3 to earn the X/Open BASE Brand.
 These tests ensure users that the VMS environment with VMS POSIX and

                                  2

 

 VAX C installed supports the essential set of interfaces necessary in
 an open system.

 The inclusion of XPG3 BASE support in the VMS environment gives ap-
 plication developers a broader set of standards-based portability fea-
 tures to incorporate into their applications. Most applications that
 strictly conform to the POSIX and XPG3 specifications can be devel-
 oped on a VMS system with VMS POSIX and the VAX C compiler, and then
 ported without modification to any other platform that also supports
 the same POSIX standards, draft standards, and XPG3 specifications.

 User Environment

 Users can access VMS by using the English-like Digital Command Lan-
 guage (DCL), the command language for VMS that is supplied with the
 system. DCL commands take the form of a command name followed by pa-
 rameters and qualifiers. DCL commands provide information about the
 system, initiate system utilities, and initiate user programs. VMS prompts
 users to enter required DCL parameters, making it easy for novice users
 to use.

 Users can enter DCL commands at a terminal or include them in command
 procedures and can run command procedures interactively or submit them
 to a batch queue for deferred execution.

 Information on DCL and VMS Utilities is available through online Help.
 Online Help includes summary operational information on all aspects
 of system operation.

 A number of tools and utilities are integrated into the VMS Operat-
 ing System. This section briefly describes some of these tools and util-
 ities.

 Text processing - The Extensible VAX Editor (EVE), one of several text
 editors supplied by Digital, allows users to insert, change, and delete
 text quickly. Written in the VAX Text Processing Utility Language (VAXTPU),
 EVE is a full-screen editor that allows users to scroll through text
 on a terminal screen. EVE provides an EDT-style keypad, allowing users
 of EDT to transition to EVE easily.

                                  3

 

 Mail facility - The Mail facility allows users to send messages to any
 other user on the system. Multinode operation is available if DECnet-VAX
 is installed and licensed on each participating node.

 Command-level programming - Command-level programming allows users to
 create special files called command procedures that contain a series
 of DCL commands. When users execute a command procedure, the system
 processes the commands in the command procedure. Users can also use
 special DCL commands to assign symbolic names, evaluate numerical and
 logical expressions, accept parameters, communicate interactively with
 the user invoking the command procedure, perform conditional (IF-THEN-
 ELSE) and branching (GOTO) logic, and handle error conditions.

 User Environment Tailoring - Users can customize the computing envi-
 ronment with user login command procedures, shorthand commands, bind-
 ing of commands to function keys, and command recall and editing.

 Program Development Environment

 VMS provides a comprehensive set of tools for developing programs in-
 cluding editors (for editing source programs), a linker, a librarian,
 and a symbolic debugger. The assembly-level VAX MACRO language is sup-
 plied with VMS.

 The VMS Run-Time Library provides string manipulation, I/O routines,
 I/O conversion, terminal independent screen handling, date and time
 formatting routines, common mathematical functions, signaling and con-
 dition handling, and other general purpose functions. These routines
 can be called from programs written in VAX MACRO or from VAX Ada, VAX BASIC,
 VAX BLISS-32 Implementation Language, VAX C, VAX COBOL, VAX DIBOL, VAX FORTRAN,
 VAX Pascal, VAX PL/I, and VAX SCAN.

 Major VMS languages (including those listed above) adhere to the VAX
 common calling standard, meaning that routines written in any of these
 languages can directly call routines written in any other language.
 Development of applications using multiple languages is simple and straight-
 forward.



                                  4

 

 All routines in the Run-Time Library follow the VMS calling standard
 and condition handling conventions and most are contained within a share-
 able image.

 At a lower level, programs can call system services directly for se-
 curity, event flag, asynchronous system trap, logical name, record and
 file I/O, process control, timer, time conversion, condition handling,
 lock management, and memory management services. Again, system ser-
 vices use the VMS calling standard and condition handling conventions.

 VMS supports execution of non-privileged images created on earlier ver-
 sions of VMS. Recompiling and relinking are typically not required.

 Some tools available to the VMS programmer are:

 Librarian utility - The Librarian utility permits efficient storage
 of object modules, macros, Help text, or any general record-oriented
 information in central, easily accessible files. Object module libraries
 are searched by the linker when the linker finds a reference it can-
 not resolve in one of its input files. Macro libraries are searched
 by the assembler when the assembler finds a macro that is not defined
 in the input file.

 Debugger - The debugger allows users to trace program execution as well
 as display and modify register contents using the same symbols that
 are in the source code.

 RMS file utilities - RMS file utilities allow users to analyze the in-
 ternal structure of an RMS file and to determine the most appropri-
 ate set of parameters for an RMS file. They can also be used to cre-
 ate, efficiently load, and reclaim space in an RMS file. Refer to the
 Operating System Environment section of this Software Product Descrip-
 tion (SPD) for more information on RMS.

 File Differences utility - This utility compares the contents of two
 files and lists those records that do not match.




                                  5

 

 Terminal Fallback Facility (TFF) - This facility allows Digital 7-bit
 terminals, such as the VT100, to input and output the DEC Multinational
 Character Set (MCS). Specific tables allow conversion for a number of
 different 7-bit National Replacement Character sets, such as French,
 German, Spanish, and Swedish, to MCS. TFF also allows character com-
 position on terminals that do not have the compose key.

 National Character Set (NCS) utility - This utility allows users to
 define non-ASCII string collating sequences and to define conversion
 functions. Conversion functions use conversion algorithms to change
 an input string, for example, to change lower case characters to up-
 per case. NCS also allows RMS indexed files to be collated using user-
 specified collating sequences.

 System Management Environment

 VMS provides a variety of tools to aid the system manager in config-
 uring and maintaining an optimal system. Some tools available for the
 system manager are:

 Backup utility - This utility provides full volume and incremental file
 backup for file-structured, mounted volumes and volume sets. Individ-
 ual files, selected directory structures, or all files on a volume set
 can be backed up and restored. Files can be selected by various dates
 (creation, modification, etc.). Files can be backed up to magnetic tape,
 magnetic disk, or WORM (Write Once Read Many) optical disk. With stan-
 dalone backup, system managers can back up and restore system disks.
 Standalone backup can also be used during the installation of the VMS
 Operating System. The Backup utility can be used to restore a saveset
 or list the contents of a saveset.

 Analyze disk structure utility - This utility compares the structure
 information on a disk volume with the contents of the disk, prints the
 structure information, and permits changes to that information. It also
 can be used to repair errors that are detected in the file structure
 of disks.




                                  6

 

 Monitor utility - This utility permits the system manager to monitor
 different classes of system-wide performance data including process
 activity, I/O activity, memory management activity, vector process-
 ing activity, and two-phase commit transaction activity at specified
 intervals. The data may be displayed as it is gathered or saved in a
 file for later use.

 License Management Facility (LMF) - This facility allows the system
 manager to easily determine which software products are licensed on
 a standalone VAX and on each of the VAX systems in a VAXcluster Sys-
 tem. It allows the system manager to select which subset of systems
 or users in a VAXcluster may use the software products. LMF also pro-
 vides an audit trail that allows the system manager to track license
 changes that occur within a VAXcluster system. Refer to the VAXclus-
 ter Support section for more information on VAXcluster Systems.

 VMS System Management (SYSMAN) utility - This utility allows the sys-
 tem manager to define a system management environment so that oper-
 ations performed from the local VAX system can be executed on all other
 VAX systems in the defined environment. The environment may include
 VAX systems in a DECnet-VAX network or in a VAXcluster System.

 Operations - VMS enables varying levels of privilege to be assigned
 to different operators. In addition, system generated messages can be
 routed to different terminals based on their interest to the console
 operators, tape librarians, security administrators, and system man-
 agers. Operators can use the VMS Help facility to get an online de-
 scription of VMS Error Messages.

 Security and Control - VMS provides privilege, protection, and quota
 mechanisms to control user access to system-controlled structures in
 physical memory, to system-structured files and volumes, and to cer-
 tain devices.

 User account information is maintained by the system manager in the
 User Authorization File (UAF). When creating user accounts with the
 Authorize utility, the system manager assigns the privileges and quo-
 tas associated with each user account. The system manager also assigns
 a unique user name, password, and user identification code (UIC) to

                                  7

 

 each account. Optionally, additional identifiers can be assigned to
 each account, permitting users to belong to multiple overlapping groups
 or projects. Account use may be limited by time of day, day of week,
 and type of access, such as local, remote, or batch.

 To log in and gain access to the system, the user must supply the user
 name and password. The password is encoded and does not appear on ter-
 minal displays. Users can change their password voluntarily, or the
 system manager can selectively enforce how frequently passwords change,
 password length, and generation of random alphabetic passwords.

 Additionally, VMS provides several password filters that screen all
 user password changes against a dictionary of common passwords. This
 prevents users from reusing passwords that they have used within the
 last year. In addition to these built-in filters, a site can install
 their own filter to screen passwords against a site-specific password
 policy.

 The system password hash algorithm can also be replaced with a pri-
 vate algorithm for those sites that have contractual agreements to use
 specific password encryption algorithms. This feature can be enabled
 on a per-user, per-password basis.

 Login security includes break-in detection, which allows terminals to
 be disabled when password guessing is detected. When a user logs in,
 the system displays a message stating when the last login for the ac-
 count occurred and if there have been failed attempts to log in since
 the last successful login.

 A UIC consists of two fields, the unique user field and a group field.
 Every file, device, queue, or other system object is labeled with the
 UIC of its owner (normally the user who created the object).

 Files, devices, queues, and other system objects are assigned a pro-
 tection mask that allows read, execute, write, and delete access to
 be selectively granted to the object's owner, group, to privileged sys-
 tem users, or to all other users. In addition, files, devices, queues,
 and some other system objects can be protected with access control lists
 to allow access to be selectively granted or denied to a list of in-
 dividual users, groups, or identifiers.

                                  8

 

 Scavenge protection can be enabled selectively in the form of file high-
 water marking, erase on allocate, and erase on delete, to ensure that
 file contents cannot be read after a file has been deleted.

 Security alarms are provided to allow selective auditing of security
 related events, including:

 o  Login and logout

 o  Login failures and break-in attempts

 o  Authorization changes

 o  File access, selectable by use of privilege, type of access, and
    by individual file

 Note: No system can provide complete security and Digital cannot guar-
 antee system security. However, Digital continually strives to enhance
 the security capabilities of its products. Customers are strongly ad-
 vised to follow industry-recognized security practices.

 INSTALLATION

 VMS is distributed as binary kits on tape and compact disc. Procedures
 for setting up the system disk from a kit and for preparing the sys-
 tem for day-to-day operations are easy and straightforward. The pro-
 cedures are described in the VMS Upgrade and Installation Manual and
 in the VMS Update Procedures. Computer-specific information is con-
 tained in the upgrade and installation supplements for each family of
 VAX computers.

 VMSINSTAL

 VMS includes a facility to automate operating system software updates,
 as well as to handle the installation of optional Digital-supplied soft-
 ware products.

 Tailoring Facility


                                  9

 

 Tailoring lets the system manager remove groups of VMS files from the
 system disk or add groups of VMS files that were formerly removed. The
 VMSTAILOR program supplies step-by-step instructions. The DECW$TAILOR
 program is used to add or remove groups of DECwindows files from the
 system disk.

 Due to space constraints, there is no guarantee that layered products
 can be installed if user files reside on the system disk.

 Application programs will execute as long as the layered products or
 optional software products do not depend on optional software run-time
 components that are not supported in the tailored environment. Refer
 to the product's System Support Addendum (SSA) for the optional prod-
 ucts supported in the tailored environment.

 Batch/Print Facility

 VMS provides an extensive batch/print facility that allows the cre-
 ation of queues and the setup of spooled devices in order to process
 non-interactive workloads in parallel with timesharing or real-time
 jobs.

 In the VMS Operating System, batch and print operations support two
 types of queues: generic queues and execution queues. A generic queue
 is an intermediate queue that holds a job until an appropriate exe-
 cution queue becomes available to initiate the job. An execution queue
 is a queue through which the job (either print or batch) is actually
 processed or executed.

 The system queues batch jobs for execution. The system manager can reg-
 ulate the number of queues and the number of streams per queue (that
 is, the number of batch jobs in the queue that can execute concurrently).

 Both generic and execution batch queues can have different attributes,
 such as the maximum CPU time permitted, working set size, and prior-
 ity. Facilities are provided for starting and stopping queues, and for
 starting and stopping jobs in a queue. Because multiple execution queues
 can be associated with a generic queue, VMS enables load balancing across
 available CPUs in a VAXcluster system, increasing overall system through-
 put.

                                 10

 

 Print queues, both generic and execution, together with queue manage-
 ment facilities, provide versatile print capabilities, including sup-
 port of ANSI and PostScript[R] file printing.

 Sites requiring sophisticated batch job dependency checking and job
 restart capabilities should refer to the DECscheduler for VMS Soft-
 ware Product Description (SPD 32.19.xx).

 Accounting

 For accounting purposes, VMS keeps records of the use of system re-
 sources. These statistics include processor and memory utilization,
 I/O counts, print symbiont line counts, image activation counts, and
 process termination records. VMS Accounting allows various reports to
 be generated using this data.

 Autoconfigure/Autogen

 VMS provides utilities to automatically configure the available de-
 vices into the system tables and to set system operational parameters
 based on the detected peripheral and memory configuration. There is
 no need for a traditional "system generation" process when the hard-
 ware configuration is expanded or otherwise modified.

 Operating System Environment

 Process and Scheduling

 The basic unit of execution in VMS is the process. A process consists
 of individual address space and registers known as "context," and code
 called an "executable image." The context identifies the process and
 describes its current state. Executable images consist of system pro-
 grams and user programs that have been compiled and linked.

 The maximum number of concurrent processes is 8,192 per VAX system.

 Processes receive processor time to execute their images based on the
 priority of the process. Thirty-two priorities are recognized: pri-
 orities 0 to 15 are for time-sharing processes and applications that

                                 11

 

 are not time critical (four is the typical default for time-sharing
 processes), and priorities 16 to 31 are for real-time processes.

 Each time an event such as an I/O interrupt occurs, the system first
 services the event and then passes control to the highest priority pro-
 cess ready to execute. The system automatically adjusts priorities of
 processes whose base priority is in the range of 0 to 15 to favor I/O-
 bound and interactive processes, but the system will not adjust the
 priority of a process in the range of 16 to 31.

 Real-time processes can be assigned higher priorities to ensure that
 they receive processor time whenever they are ready to execute. Real-
 time processes are scheduled pre-emptively; that is, if a real-time
 process is ready to execute, it is given the processor immediately,
 unless a real-time process with a higher priority is ready to execute.

 VMS uses paging and swapping mechanisms to provide sufficient virtual
 memory for multiple concurrently executing processes. Also, paging and
 swapping is provided for processes whose memory requirements exceed
 available physical memory. The maximum working set size is 200,000 pages
 of memory.

 Programmers can exercise control over memory management from within
 an image. An image executing in a real-time process, for example, can
 inhibit paging or swapping of critical code and data.

 Peripheral devices can be managed by the system or allocated by in-
 dividual processes. At least one disk must be a system disk. Other disks
 can be designated as data disks for the general use of all users log-
 ging into the system or for a specific group of users. The system con-
 trols interactive terminals and one or more printers.

 Vector Processing

 A single data item, having one value, is known as a scalar value. A
 group of related scalar values, or elements, all of the same data type,
 is known as a vector.



                                 12

 

 An extension to the VAX architecture defines an optional design for
 integrated vector processing that has been adopted by several VAX sys-
 tems. The VAX vector architecture includes 16 64-bit vector registers
 (V0 through V15), each containing 64 elements; vector control regis-
 ters; vector function units; and a set of vector instructions. VAX vec-
 tor instructions transfer data between the vector registers and mem-
 ory, perform integer and floating-point arithmetic, and execute pro-
 cessor control functions.

 A more detailed description of the VAX vector architecture, vector reg-
 isters, and vector instructions appears in the VAX MACRO and Instruc-
 tion Set Reference Manual.

 The VMS Operating System provides fully-shared, multiprogramming sup-
 port for VAX vector processing systems. By default, VMS loads vector
 support code when initializing vector-present systems, but does not
 load it when initializing vector-absent systems. A system manager can
 control this behavior by using the SYSGEN parameter VECTOR_PROC, as
 described in the VMS documentation.

 The presence of vector support code in a system has little affect on
 processes running in a scalar-only system, or scalar processes run-
 ning in a vector-present system. If many processes must compete si-
 multaneously for vector processor resources in a system, the system
 manager can maintain good performance by adjusting system resources
 and process quotas as indicated in the VMS documentation.

 The VMS Operating System makes the services of the vector processor
 available to system users by means of a software abstract known as a
 capability. A system manager can restrict the use of the vector pro-
 cessor to users holding a particular identifier by associating an ac-
 cess control list (ACL) entry with the CAPABILITY object VECTOR.

 The VAX Vector Instruction Emulation Facility (VVIEF) is a standard
 feature of the VMS Operating System that allows vectorized applica-
 tions to be written and debugged in a VAX system in which vector pro-
 cessors are not available. VVIEF emulates the VAX vector processing
 environment, including the non-privileged VAX vector instructions and


                                 13

 

 the VMS vector system services, as described in the VMS documentation.
 Use of VVIEF is restricted to user mode code.

 DECdtm Services

 The DECdtm services embedded in the VMS Operating System support fully
 distributed databases using a "two phase commit" protocol. The DECdtm
 services provide the technology and features for distributed process-
 ing, ensuring both transaction and database integrity across multi-
 ple resource managers. Updates to distributed databases occur as a sin-
 gle "all or nothing" unit of work, regardless of where the data phys-
 ically resides. This ensures consistency of distributed data.

 DECdtm services allow applications to define "global transactions" that
 may include calls to any of a number of Digital data management prod-
 ucts. Regardless of the mix of data management products used, the global
 transaction will either commit or abort. VMS is unique in providing
 transaction processing functionality as base operating system services.

 DECdtm Features

 o  Embedded VMS system services support the DECtp architecture, pro-
    viding features and the technology for distributed transaction pro-
    cessing.

 o  DECdtm allows multiple disjoint resources to be updated atomically.
    These resources can be either physically-disjointed (for example,
    on different CPUs) or logically-disjointed (for example, in dif-
    ferent databases on the same CPU).

 o  DECdtm encourages robust application development. Applications can
    be written to ensure that data is never in an inconsistent state,
    even in the event of system failures.

 o  As a VMS service, DECdtm can be called using any Digital TP mon-
    itor (ACMS or DECintact) or database product (DBMS, RDB, RMS). This
    is useful for applications using several database products.

 Interprocess Communication

                                 14

 

 VMS provides a number of facilities for applications that consist of
 multiple cooperating processes:

 o  Mailboxes are virtual devices that allow processes to communicate
    with queued messages.

 o  Shared memory sections on a single processor or a symmetrical mul-
    tiprocessing (SMP) system permit multiple processes to access shared
    address space concurrently.

 o  Common event flags provide simple synchronization.

 o  The lock manager provides a more comprehensive enqueue/dequeue fa-
    cility with multi-level locks, values, and ASTs (Asynchronous Sys-
    tem Traps).

 Symmetric Multiprocessing

 VMS provides symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) support for multiprocess-
 ing VAX systems. SMP is a form of tightly coupled multiprocessing in
 which all processors perform operations simultaneously. The proces-
 sors can perform operations in all VAX access modes (user, supervi-
 sor, executive, and kernel).

 VMS SMP configurations consist of multiple central processing units
 executing code from a single shared memory address space. Users and
 processes share a single copy of VMS. SMP also provides simultaneous
 shared access to common data in global sections to all processors. VMS
 SMP dynamically balances the execution of all processes across all avail-
 able processors based on process priority.

 SMP support is an integral part of VMS and is provided transparently
 to the user. Because an SMP system is a single system entity, it is
 configured into a network and VAXcluster systems as a single node.






                                 15

 

 VAXcluster Support

 VAXcluster Software is a VMS System Integrated Product (SIP) that is
 separately licensed. It provides a highly integrated VMS computing en-
 vironment distributed over multiple VAX, VAX Workstation, and MicroVAX CPUs.
 This environment is called a VAXcluster system and may contain up to
 96 VAX CPUs.

 VAXcluster CPUs communicate using any combination of four intercon-
 nects; CI, DSSI, Ethernet, and FDDI. VAXcluster systems that include
 a CI may optionally be configured with HSC-series intelligent stor-
 age controllers.

 Applications running on one or more CPUs in a VAXcluster system ac-
 cess shared resources in a coordinated manner. VAXcluster Software com-
 ponents synchronize access to shared resources, preventing multiple
 processes on any CPU in the VAXcluster from interfering with each other
 when updating data. This coordination ensures data integrity during
 multiple concurrent update transactions. Application programs can spec-
 ify the level of VAXcluster-wide file sharing that is required; ac-
 cess is then coordinated by the VMS Extended QIO Processor (XQP) and
 Record Management Services (RMS).

 The VMS queue manager controls VAXcluster-wide batch and print queues,
 which can be accessed by any VAXcluster CPU. Batch jobs submitted to
 VAXcluster-wide queues are routed to any available CPU so that the batch
 load is shared.

 Two or more VAX computers connected to the same Computer Interconnect
 (CI) or Digital Storage Systems Interconnect (DSSI) must run VAXclus-
 ter software and be part of the same VAXcluster system.

 Refer to the VAXcluster Software Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx)
 for more information.

 Networking Facilities




                                 16

 

 VMS provides device drivers for all Digital Ethernet adapters listed
 in the Ethernet Options section of this SPD. Application programmers
 can use the QIO system service to communicate with other systems con-
 nected via the Ethernet using either Ethernet or IEEE 802.3 packet for-
 mat. Simultaneous use of Digital Ethernet and IEEE 802.3 protocols are
 supported on any Digital Ethernet adapter.

 VMS also provides device drivers for Digital asynchronous adapters that
 are supported by DECnet-VAX. Customers must order the VAX Wide Area
 Network Device Drivers kit (refer to SPD 29.64.xx) to obtain synchronous
 device drivers for Digital synchronous adapters. Not all devices are
 supported, and certain restrictions apply relative to line speed and
 line utilization. Refer to the Hardware Charts and Appendix B of this
 SPD, as well as the DECnet-VAX SPD (25.03.xx), for more information.

 DECnet-VAX offers task-to-task communications, file management, down-
 line system and task loading, network command terminals, and network
 resource sharing capabilities using the Digital Network Architecture
 (DNA) protocols.

 DECnet-VAX Software is a System Integrated Product (SIP) that is sep-
 arately licensed from the VMS Operating System. Refer to the DECnet-VAX
 SPD (SPD 25.03.xx) for further information on supported communications
 devices and software features.

 Internet networking is available through the VMS/ULTRIX Connection lay-
 ered product. This product provides TCP/IP networking (useful with DECwin-
 dows), Network File System (NFS), File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Re-
 mote Terminal Services (TELNET), and other features. Refer to the VMS
 /ULTRIX Connection SPD (SPD 25.A4.xx).

 Multi-Threading Capability

 VMS includes a user-mode multi-threading capability referred to as DEC-
 threads. DECthreads provides an implementation of draft 4 of the pro-
 posed POSIX 1003.4a standard and is Digital's implementation of the
 Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) Threads as defined by the Open
 Software Foundation. DECthreads is a library of run-time routines that


                                 17

 

 allows the user to create multiple threads of execution within a sin-
 gle address space. Multi-threading capability allows computation ac-
 tivity to be overlapped with I/O activity. Synchronization elements,
 such as mutexes and condition variables, are provided to help ensure
 that shared resources are accessed correctly. DECthreads also provides
 multiple scheduling policies for scheduling and prioritizing threads.

 Terminal Server Products

 Digital's terminal server products can be used for terminal server ac-
 cess to VMS. When used in a VAXcluster system environment, terminal
 servers automatically distribute users at login time across the avail-
 able VAX systems.

 VMS can also establish a connection to other devices (such as print-
 ers) attached to such terminal servers.

 Reliability

 The system handles hardware errors as transparently as possible while
 maintaining data integrity and providing sufficient information to di-
 agnose the cause of the error. The system limits the effects of an er-
 ror by first determining if the error is fatal. If the error is fa-
 tal then the process that encountered the error is aborted. If the er-
 ror occurs in system context then the current VMS session is shut down.
 If the error is not fatal then recovery actions pertinent to the er-
 ror are executed and current operation is continued.

 In all cases, information relevant to the error is collected and put
 in the error log file for later analysis. Hardware errors include the
 following categories:

 o  Processor errors (these include processor soft errors, processor
    hard errors, processor machine checks, adapter errors).

 o  Memory errors are hardware errors that are handled in a slightly
    different manner. The system examines memory at startup time and
    does not use any pages found to be bad. During system operation,
    the hardware transparently corrects all single-bit memory errors
    for those systems with ECC memory. An unrecoverable error causes
    the memory page on which the error occurred to be added to the bad

                                 18

 

    page list. If the page has not been modified, system operation con-
    tinues with a new copy of the page.

 Other failures include:

 o  Operating system errors (system-detected inconsistencies or archi-
    tectural errors in system context)

 o  User errors

 o  I/O errors
    The system logs all processor errors, all operating system errors
    detected through internal consistency checks, all double-bit mem-
    ory errors (and a summary of corrected single-bit errors), and all
    I/O errors. (Double-bit errors are detected only on those VAX and
    MicroVAX systems with ECC memory.)
    If the system is shut down because of an unrecoverable hardware or
    software error, a dump of physical memory is written. The dump in-
    cludes the contents of the processor registers. The VMS System Dump
    Analyzer utility is provided for analyzing memory dumps.

 Power Failures

 If power fails, the system shuts down automatically. When power is re-
 stored, the system restarts automatically and resumes processing at
 the point of interruption if the system has a time-of-day clock and
 a memory battery backup unit, if the contents of memory are still valid,
 and if the system is set to permit automatic rebooting.

 The system restarts devices and communications lines. All I/O oper-
 ations in progress, including magnetic tape I/O operations, are restarted.
 On request, programs can be notified of power restoration. An optional
 battery-operated hardware clock resets the date and time of day when
 the system restarts. If the system does not have a battery backup unit,
 or if the memory contents are not valid on power restoration, the sys-
 tem will reboot automatically if the system is set to permit automatic
 rebooting.



                                 19

 

 If, for any reason, the system disk does not come back on line after
 a power failure within a specific time after the CPU regains power,
 the system shuts down.

 Test Package and Diagnostics

 VMS includes a User Environment Test Package (UETP) that verifies that
 the VMS Operating System is properly installed and ready for use on
 the customer's systems.

 Diagnostics can be run on individual devices during normal system op-
 eration. Certain critical components can operate in degraded mode. For
 example, the memory cache can be disabled. The system places a com-
 ponent in degraded mode when errors pass a threshold level.

 Input/Output

 The QIO system service provides a direct interface to the operating
 system's I/O routines. These services are available from within most
 VAX programming languages and can be used to perform low-level I/O op-
 erations efficiently with a minimal amount of system overhead for time-
 critical applications.

 Device drivers execute I/O instructions to transfer data to and from
 the device and to communicate directly with an I/O device. Each type
 of I/O device requires its own driver. Digital supplies drivers for
 all devices supported by the VMS Operating System and provides QIO sys-
 tem service routines to access the special device dependent features
 available in many of these devices. Users with special needs or non-
 VMS supported devices can write their own device drivers. The VMS De-
 vice Support Manual and the VMS Device Support Reference Manual in the
 VMS Extended Documentation set describe how to write device drivers.

 The VMS Operating System supports a variety of disk and tape periph-
 eral devices, as well as terminals, networks, mailboxes (virtual de-
 vices for interprocess communication), and more general I/O devices.
 These I/O devices include line printers, card readers, and general pur-
 pose data acquisition devices such as the DRB32.

 VMS Record Management Services (VMS RMS)

                                 20

 

 VMS RMS is a set of I/O services that help application programs to pro-
 cess and manage files and records. Although it is primarily intended
 to provide a comprehensive software interface to mass storage devices,
 VMS RMS also supports device-independent access to unit-record devices.

 VMS RMS supports sequential, relative, and indexed file organizations
 in fixed-length and variable-length record formats. VMS RMS also sup-
 ports byte stream formats for sequential file organization. VMS RMS
 record access modes provide access to records in four ways: sequen-
 tially, directly by key value, directly by relative record number, and
 directly by record file address. VMS RMS also supports block I/O op-
 erations for various performance-critical applications that may re-
 quire user-defined file organizations and record formats.

 VMS RMS promotes safe and efficient file sharing by providing multi-
 ple file access modes, automatic record locking where applicable, and
 optional buffer sharing by multiple processes.

 VMS RMS utilities aid file creation and record maintenance. These util-
 ities convert files from one organization and format to another, re-
 structure indexed files for storage and access efficiency, and reclaim
 data structures within indexed files. The utilities also generate ap-
 propriate reports.

 For systems that have DECnet installed, VMS RMS provides a subset of
 file and record management services to remote network nodes. Network
 remote file operations are generally transparent to user programs.

 DCL commands such as EDIT, CREATE, COPY, TYPE, and PRINT allow manip-
 ulation of RMS files and records within RMS files at the DCL command
 level.

 RMS Journaling for OpenVMS

 RMS Journaling for OpenVMS is a VMS System Integrated Product (SIP)
 that enables a system manager, user, or application to maintain the
 data integrity of RMS files in the face of a number of failure sce-
 narios. It protects RMS file data from becoming lost, corrupted, or
 inconsistent. RMS Journaling for OpenVMS is separately licensed.

                                 21

 

 RMS Journaling provides the ability to maintain three types of jour-
 naling that maintain modification information for journaled RMS files.

 o  Before Image Journaling. Provides the ability to "undo" modifica-
    tions that have been made to a file. This type of journaling pro-
    vides the ability to return a file to a previous known state. This
    is useful in the event that a file is updated with erroneous or bad
    data. No application modifications are necessary in order to use
    Before Image journaling.

 o  After Image Journaling. Provides the ability to "redo" modifica-
    tions that have been made to a file. This type of journaling al-
    lows you to recover files that are inadvertently deleted, lost or
    corrupted. RMS Journaling recovers the file by applying the jour-
    naled modifications to a backup copy, thereby restoring its final
    state. No application modifications are necessary in order to use
    After Image journaling.

 o  Recovery Unit Journaling. Provides the ability to maintain trans-
    action integrity. A transaction may be defined as a series of many
    file updates, on one or more files. In the event of any failure dur-
    ing the transaction, Recovery Unit journaling will roll-back the
    partially completed transaction to its starting point. This allows
    complex transactions to be completed as an atomic event - partially
    completed transactions can be avoided. Recovery Unit journaling re-
    quires application modification.

 Refer to SPD 27.58.xx for more information.

 Disk and Tape Volumes

 Disk volumes can be organized into volume sets. Volume sets can con-
 tain a mix of disk device types and can be extended by adding volumes.
 Within a volume set, files of any organization type can span multi-
 ple volumes. Files can be allocated to the set as a whole (the default)
 or to specific volumes within the set. Optionally, portions of indexed
 files can be allocated to specific areas of a single disk volume or
 to specific volumes in a volume set.


                                 22

 

 Disk quotas can be placed to control the amount of space individual
 users can allocate. Quota assignment is made by User Identification
 Code and can be controlled for each volume set in the system (or for
 each individual volume if the volume is not part of a set).

 Disk structure information can be cached in memory to reduce the I/O
 overhead required for file management services. Although not required
 to do so, users can preallocate space and control automatic alloca-
 tion. For example, a file can be extended by a given number of blocks,
 contiguously or noncontiguously, for optimal file system performance
 in specific cases.

 The system applies software validity checks and checksums to criti-
 cal disk structure information. If a volume is improperly dismounted
 because of user error or system failure, the system automatically re-
 builds the volume's structure information the next time the volume is
 mounted. The system detects bad blocks dynamically and prevents their
 reuse once the files to which the blocks were allocated are deleted.
 On Digital Storage Architecture (DSA) disks, the disk controller dy-
 namically detects and replaces bad blocks automatically.

 The system provides eight levels of named directories and subdirec-
 tories whose contents are alphabetically ordered. Device and file spec-
 ifications follow Digital conventions. Logical names can be used to
 abbreviate the specifications and to make application programs device
 and file-name independent. A logical name can be assigned to an en-
 tire specification, to a portion of a specification, or to another log-
 ical name.

 VMS supports multivolume magnetic tape files with transparent volume
 switching. Access positioning is done either by filename or by rel-
 ative file position.

 Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS

 Digital provides the Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS product for perform-
 ing disk shadowing operations, using a RAID 1 implementation.



                                 23

 

 Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS is a VMS System Integrated Product (SIP)
 that is separately licensed. Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS provides high
 data availability for disk storage devices by ensuring against data
 loss resulting from media deterioration or through controller or de-
 vice failure. This prevents storage subsystem component failures from
 interrupting system or application operation.

 The system disk and Files-11 On-Disk Structure 2 (ODS2) data disks can
 be volume shadowed.

 The Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS product supports shadowing of all MSCP-
 compliant DSA disks and all Digital SCSI disks. All disks in a sin-
 gle shadow set must have the same physical geometry and can be located
 on a single system or anywhere in a VAXcluster system. Disks can be
 configured on any MSCP or Digital SCSI compliant controller; this in-
 cludes HSC-series controllers, local controllers, DSSI Integrated Stor-
 age Elements, and VMS MSCP Served DSA devices. Nonlocal disks can be
 accessed using any of the supported VAXcluster interconnects (CI, DSSI,
 Ethernet, FDDI, and mixed).

 Volume Shadowing for OpenVMS provides fault tolerance resulting from
 disk media errors or controller errors across the full range of VAX
 processors and configurations. Shadow set member units can be located
 on different controllers and VMS MSCP servers, providing configura-
 tion flexibility and a high degree of data availability.

 Refer to SPD 27.29.xx for more information.

 VMS DECwindows Motif[TM]

 Digital offers a separately orderable layered product called VMS DECwin-
 dows Motif[TM]. VMS DECwindows Motif provides support for both OSF/Motif[TM],
 an open standard that is the new default user interface, and the X User
 Interface in a single run-time and development environment. Because
 both Motif and XUI are based on MIT's X Window System, applications
 written to either toolkit continue to run regardless of which envi-
 ronment the user selects. Refer to the VMS DECwindows Motif SPD (SPD
 36.09.xx) for more information.

 VMS DECwindows Environment

                                 24

 

 Integral to VMS is support for the VMS DECwindows desktop environment.
 VMS DECwindows is based on MIT's specification for the X Window Sys-
 tem, Version 11, Release 3, and is delivered as a component of the VMS
 Operating System. X Window System standards supported as part of DECwin-
 dows include the X11 network protocol, a base set of workstation fonts,
 the C language binding for the Xlib programming library, and the C lan-
 guage binding for the Xtoolkit library. Also featured within DECwin-
 dows for workstation users is support for Adobe's Display PostScript
 integrated into X11.

 Support of the X11 network protocol in the client library, and dis-
 play server components provides VMS with the ability to interoperate
 with other X11-compliant systems in a distributed fashion.

 DECwindows supports the client-server distribution inherent in the X
 Window System, with three VMS-provided transport interfaces - local
 shared memory, DECnet, and TCP/IP (using Digital's VMS/ULTRIX Connec-
 tion (UCX) layered product). Users can also provide their own trans-
 port subsystems and transport interfaces.

 To determine whether a separately orderable DECwindows or X applica-
 tion runs on or can communicate with a VMS DECwindows system, consult
 the application's Software Product Description.

 The DECwindows desktop environment provides a graphical user inter-
 face to VMS. This user interface defines a powerful model for inter-
 acting with the VMS Operating System using a point and click metaphor.
 It includes a set of integrated desktop applications that demonstrate
 the power of this new metaphor and that provide VMS users with a base
 set of desktop tools.

 The user environment consists of four basic components:

 1. The Session Manager provides the top-level user interface to a DECwin-
    dows workstation. It performs application activation, session-wide
    customization, screen printing, security management, and session
    control. The session manager also allows users to specify the lan-
    guage in which DECwindows should run, provided that a VMS DECwin-
    dows language variant kit has been ordered and installed.

                                 25

 

 2. The Window Manager provides user control for managing windows.

 3. FileView is a graphical interface to VMS file management that al-
    lows users to navigate through the VMS file system and perform op-
    erations on files.

 4. The DECterm terminal emulator provides workstation users with a tra-
    ditional character cell interface for existing VMS features and ap-
    plications. It is a ReGIS and sixel compatible VT320 terminal em-
    ulator. Programs written for VT52, VT100, VT220, or VT320-class ter-
    minals and using VMS terminal driver features operate without mod-
    ification in this workstation window. DECterm also provides workstation-
    oriented features such as mouse-based cursor positioning, variable
    screen sizes, and cutting and pasting of text between terminal em-
    ulators and other DECwindows applications.

 Applications

 A set of integrated desktop applications is provided as a base com-
 ponent of the DECwindows environment. These applications establish and
 demonstrate the consistent DECwindows user model. They also provide
 significant end user capabilities.

 o  Bookreader - A tool for viewing the contents of books that are dis-
    tributed and stored on-line

 o  Calculator - A basic scientific calculator

 o  Calendar - A personal time management system

 o  Cardfiler - A hierarchical information storage application simi-
    lar to an online address and/or phone book

 o  Clock - An analog and/or digital date and time display with noti-
    fication by alarm

 o  Compound Document viewer - Tools for reading documents containing
    compound text, graphics, and image data on terminals and DECwin-
    dows workstations

 o  DEBUG - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS DEBUGGER

 o  Mail - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS mail facility

                                 26

 

 o  Notepad - A simple text editor

 o  Paint - A simple bitmap graphics editor

 o  Puzzle game - A game that challenges users to sort mixed up puz-
    zle tiles

 o  TPU/EVE - A DECwindows user interface to the VMS TPU/EVE editor

 DECwindows workstation users can display PostScript files featuring
 WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) compatibility between the dis-
 play and any of Digital's PostScript printers. Display PostScript abil-
 ity is available within the Compound Document viewer and DECwindows
 Mail.

 Programming Support

 The VMS DECwindows environment includes an extensive set of program-
 ming libraries and tools for use by developers of new applications.
 These components support the development of portable applications by
 focusing on three broad areas:

 o  X Window System (X) support

 o  X User Interface (XUI) support

 o  Compound Document Architecture (CDA) support

 Components from each of these areas can be used in any combination to
 address the needs of applications. They can also use the tools from
 a variety of different programming languages. All programming libraries
 have been provided with procedural language bindings in both the style
 of the VAX calling standard and the style of the MIT C language pro-
 gramming conventions.

 Support is provided for the following languages:
 

 VAX Ada                VAX FORTRAN

 VAX BASIC              VAX MACRO

                                 27

 


 VAX BLISS-32           VAX Pascal
     Implementation
 Language

 VAX C (VAX calling     VAX PL/I
 standard
     or MIT conven-
 tion)

 X Window System (X) Programming Support

 The X Window System compatible X programming library (Xlib) provided
 by the VMS DECwindows environment provides basic resource management
 (windows, color maps, input devices) and bitmap graphics services. It
 defines a mapping of the X network protocol to a procedure library.

 The Xtoolkit programming library is also supported by the VMS DECwin-
 dows environment. It is described further under XUI Programming Sup-
 port.

 X User Interface (XUI) Programming Support

 XUI determines the application model for Digital and third-party soft-
 ware tailored for the DECwindows environment. It establishes the con-
 ventions and styles that are encouraged for applications that share
 a DECwindows workstation. Applications use XUI components to build user
 interfaces that make them look and feel like integrated members of the
 Digital computing environment.

 The XUI Style Guide, available in the VMS DECwindows Programming Kit,
 describes the principles, philosophy, and components used to build con-
 sistent and well-integrated DECwindows applications.

 Its concepts are implemented by the XUI Toolkit. The XUI Toolkit is
 a superset of the X Window System Xtoolkit and contains four compo-
 nents:

 o  Xtoolkit components (known as intrinsics) for managing, modifying,
    and creating user interface objects (known as widgets and gadgets)

                                 28

 

 o  DECwindows widgets and gadgets for implementing common user inter-
    face objects such as scroll bars, menus, and push buttons

 o  Utility routines that provide applications with functions for per-
    forming common tasks such as cut and paste

 o  Resource manager routines for loading user interface definition files
    and creating widgets and gadgets based on the contents of the def-
    inition files

 The XUI Toolkit is used in conjunction with the DECwindows User In-
 terface Language (UIL) compiler. The user interface definition files
 produced by this compiler contain the data to separate form and func-
 tion in DECwindows applications and allow DECwindows toolkit widget
 and gadget details, such as menu item labels, to be stored separately
 from the toolkit and application run-time code. This capability al-
 lows application developers to prototype and modify user interface de-
 signs, separate form and function in applications, and support inter-
 national products.

 Enhanced X Windows Display PostScript (XDPS)

 The Display PostScript system provided with VMS DECwindows extends the
 native X graphical programming environment for Digital DECwindows work-
 station users.

 X Display PostScript adds the following capabilities to the basic X11
 environment:

 o  All DECwindows fonts can be displayed at any size and rotation an-
    gle

 o  XDPS graphics specified in a user-defined coordinate systems are
    independent of monitor density

 o  Color or gray-scale rendition are automatically modified to take
    advantage of the monitor type through either direct display, color
    dithering, or half-toning

 o  DPS Display routines can be downloaded to the server and executed
    on command

                                 29

 

 o  Sophisticated graphics primitives such as precisely-controlled Bezier
    curves can be displayed

 o  Any display can be scaled and rotated arbitrarily

 Programming access to XDPS is through the Adobe Client Library. In ad-
 dition, a converter called pswrap allows users to convert PostScript
 code into C programs that can be called from other languages.

 Compound Document Architecture (CDA) Programming Support

 The CDA Toolkit provides access routines that applications can use to
 create, read, and write files containing compound text, graphics, and
 imaging data. These files provide a vehicle for recording this infor-
 mation on disk, a medium for interchange of this data between appli-
 cations, and an intermediate form from which high-resolution print-
 able graphics data can be generated.

 In addition to providing support for developing new applications to
 access compound documents, VMS also provides fallback support, allow-
 ing many existing utilities to read and operate on these new kinds of
 files.

 Transport Mechanisms

 VMS DECwindows supports three different user-selectable mechanisms for
 transport of X network protocol packets between applications and dis-
 play servers.

 A VMS DECwindows-specific shared memory-based transport is used when
 the DECwindows application and display server are located on the same
 workstation. This optimization provides significantly greater perfor-
 mance. It is the default transport under these circumstances.

 DECnet is used when the DECwindows application and display server are
 distributed across two different machines in the network. It is the
 default transport under these circumstances.



                                 30

 

 TCP/IP is used when the DECwindows application and display server are
 distributed across two different machines in the network and the Digital-
 supplied VMS/ULTRIX Connection (UCX) layered product is being used to
 make the connection. See the SOFTWARE LICENSING section of this SPD
 for licensing details.

 Workstation Device Support

 The VMS DECwindows environment provides several software components
 to support displaying graphics and windowing output on and receiving
 keyboard and pointer driver input from VAX workstations.

 Device drivers are provided to support output to monochrome and color
 displays and to receive input from keyboard, mouse, and tablet devices.

 A display server compatible with the X Window System receives output
 requests from applications and translates those requests into driver
 commands. They also relay driver-generated input events back to the
 applications.

 Over 400 video fonts are provided in a variety of styles and point sizes
 for use on 75 and 100 dot per inch (dpi) monitors. These video fonts
 have been designed to correspond directly to the fonts used by Dig-
 ital's PostScript printers. In addition, a font compiler is provided
 so that customers can make their own private fonts available on their
 DECwindows workstations and terminals.

 Multi-headed Workstation Support

 A multi-headed workstation consists of one system box, one keyboard
 and one mouse, but more than one monitor and graphics controller. It
 is a single-user workstation. Multi-headed workstations provide more
 screen area for complex applications.

 The screens on the multiple monitors are controlled by a single server.
 The mouse cursor can be moved freely between screens, and the keyboard
 can be used to generate input to windows on any screen. The server im-
 plementation handles each monitor as a separate X11 screen. This means
 that a single window cannot cross screen boundaries; for example, users
 cannot drag a window from one monitor to another. However, users can

                                 31

 

 cut and paste between windows on different screens, and windows can
 be opened on either screen, or both, by user applications.

 The Dual Monitor Option is a cable and adapter module that allows two
 monitors to be connected at the same time to a single VAXstation 3100
 system box (models 30, 38, 40, and 48). The Quad Monitor Option is a
 cable and adapter module that allows four monitors to be connected at
 the same time to a single VAXstation 4000 model 60. The system must
 include one of the 8-plane graphics options, either the GPX graphics
 or SPX graphics accelerator.

 The system must include at least one monochrome monitor, VR150 or VR262,
 driven by the single-plane frame buffer that is standard on all VAXs-
 tations 3100s. VAXstation 4000 model 60s do not require a monochrome
 monitor.

 The second monitor, connected to the 8-plane graphics option, can be
 color, or it can be monochrome for gray scale operations. Supported
 color monitors for the VAXstation 3100s are the VR160, VR290, VR297,
 VR299, and VRT19. Supported color monitors for the VAXstation 4000 model
 60 are VRT16, VRT19, and VR320.

 Standards

 The VMS Operating System is based on the public, national, and inter-
 national standards listed below. These standards are developed by the
 American National Standards Institute (ANSI), U.S. Federal Government
 (responsible for FIPS), Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engi-
 neers (IEEE), and the International Organization for Standardization
 (ISO). The following information may be useful in determining respon-
 siveness to stated conformance requirements as enabled in particular
 commercial and/or government procurement solicitation documents.

 o  ANSI X3.4-1986: American Standard Code for Information Interchange

 o  ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape (800 BPI, NRZI)

 o  ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code


                                 32

 

 o  ANSI X3.27-1987: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic Tapes for
    Information Interchange

 o  ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (1600 BPI, PE)

 o  ANSI X3.40-1983: Unrecorded Magnetic Tape

 o  ANSI X3.41-1974: Code Extension Techniques for Use with 7-bit ASCII

 o  ANSI X3.42-1975: Representation of Numeric Values in Character Strings

 o  ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape (6250 BPI, GCR)

 o  ANSI X3.131-1986 (SCSI I): Small Computer System Interface

 o  ANSI X3T9.2/89-042 (SCSI II): Small Computer System Interface as
    described in REV 10C

 o  ANSI/IEEE 802.2-1985: Logical Link Control

 o  ANSI/IEEE 802.3-1985: Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision
    Detection

 o  FIPS 1-2: Code for Information Interchange, its Representations,
    Subsets, and Extensions

    Note: 1-2 includes ANSI X3.4-1977(86)/FIPS 15; ANSI X3.32-1973/FIPS
    36; ANSI X3.41-1974/FIPS 35; and FIPS 7

 o  FIPS 2-1/ANSI 3.6-1965: Perforated Tape Code for Information In-
    terchange

 o  FIPS 3-1/ANSI X3.22-1973: Recorded Magnetic Tape Information In-
    terchange (800 CPI, NRZI)

 o  FIPS 13/ANSI X3.21-1967: Rectangular Holes in Twelve-row Punched
    Cards

 o  FIPS 14/ANSI X3.26-1980: Hollerith Punched Card Code

 o  FIPS 16-1/ANSI X3.15-1976: Bit Sequencing of the Code for Infor-
    mation Interchange in Serial-by-bit Data Transmission

    Note: FED STD 1010 adopts FIPS 16-1

                                 33

 

 o  FIPS 22-1/ANSI X3.1-1976: Synchronous Signaling Rates Between Data
    Terminal and Data Communication Equipment

    Note: FED STD 1013 adopts FIPS 22-1

 o  FIPS 25/ANSI X3.39-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Information In-
    terchange (1600 CPI, Phase Encoded)

 o  FIPS 26/ANSI X3.18-1967: One Inch Perforated Paper Tape for Infor-
    mation Interchange

 o  FIPS 37/ANSI X3.36-1975: Synchronous High Speed Data Signaling Rates
    Between Data Terminal Equipment and Data Communication Equipment

    Note: FED STD 1001 adopts FIPS 37

 o  FIPS 50/ANSI X3.54-1986: Recorded Magnetic Tape for Information In-
    terchange, 6250 CPI (246 CPMM), Group Coded Recording

 o  FIPS 79/ANSI X3.27-1987: Magnetic Tape Labels and File Structure
    for Information Interchange

 o  FIPS 86/ANSI X3.64-1979: Additional Controls for Use with Ameri-
    can National Standard Code for Information Interchange

 o  FIPS 151-1: Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX 1003.1)

 o  Other FIPS not applicable

 o  POSIX 1003.1, 1988: System application programming interface

 o  POSIX 1003.2, draft 10: Shell and utilities

 o  POSIX 1003.4, draft 9: Real-time programming

    Note: Information regarding interchangeability of ANSI and FED stan-
    dards with FIPS is contained in "ADP Telecommunications Standards
    Index," July 1988, published and maintained by the General Services
    Administration.

 o  ISO 646: ISO 7-bit Coded Character Set for Information Exchange

 o  ISO 1001: File Structure and Labeling of Magnetic Tapes For Infor-
    mation Interchange

                                 34

 

 o  ISO 1863: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
    magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 32 rpmm (800
    rpi)

 o  ISO 1864: Information Processing - Unrecorded 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
    magnetic tape for information interchange - 35 ftpmm (800 ftpi) NRZI,
    126 ftpmm (3 200 ftpi) phase encoded and 356 ftmm (9 042 ftpi), NRZI

 o  ISO 2022: Code Extension Techniques for Use with ISO 646

 o  ISO 3307: Representations of Time of the Day

 o  ISO 3788: Information Processing - 9-track, 12, 7 mm (0.5 in) wide
    magnetic tape for information interchange recorded at 63 rpmm (1
    600 rpt), phase encoded

 o  ISO 4873: 8-bit Code for Information Interchange - Structure and
    Rules for Implementation

 o  ISO 5652: Recorded Magtape (6250)

 o  ISO 6429: Control Functions for Coded Character Sets

 VMS Disk Block Requirements

 Disk Space Requirements (Block Cluster Size = 2):

 The disk block size for the VMS Operating System, Version 5.5-2 af-
 ter installation is approximately 107,600 blocks. This figure includes
 5,600 blocks for page and swap files. Most systems will require larger
 page and swap files. This figure also includes Help library files that
 are in data-compressed format. Most system managers choose to expand
 these files (for faster access). The expansion requires approximately
 8,500 additional blocks.

 At least 67,000 free blocks are required in order to update VMS V5.5
 to VMS V5.5-2. Alternative installation options are available for small
 operating system disk configurations. Please refer to the VMS Versions
 5.5-2 Update Procedures for information concerning these installation
 options.

                                 35

 

 To support full VMS, a system disk of greater than 100 MB is recom-
 mended. When a smaller disk is used, additional tailoring is required
 prior to installing some VMS options. This does not include the dump
 file space. Refer to VMS Upgrade and Installation Procedures for in-
 formation on tailoring.

 VMS DECwindows Disk Block Requirements

 The disk block size for the complete VMS DECwindows XUI environment
 after installation is approximately 68,000 blocks. This is in addi-
 tion to the 107,600 blocks required for the other components of the
 VMS Operating System environment. A subset of the DECwindows environ-
 ment can be installed. For example, programming support need not be
 installed in a user environment.

 The following list describes how many blocks are needed for each sec-
 tion:

 o  User environment and applications - 14,000 blocks. This section pro-
    vides support for running VMS DECwindows applications on VAX com-
    pute servers.

 o  Workstation device support - 19,000 blocks. This number includes
    2,800 blocks for the 75 dpi fonts and 3,900 blocks for the 100 dpi
    fonts. On 75 dpi systems, the 100 dpi fonts do not have to be in-
    stalled. On 100 dpi systems, both sets of fonts must be installed.

 o  Programming support - 32,000 blocks (approximately 3,500 per lan-
    guage). This number includes support for all the programming lan-
    guages. If only a subset of languages is installed, the amount of
    disk space will be less.

 o  Example files - approximately 3,000 blocks.

 Note that the individual sizes add up to more than the total because
 some components are shared by multiple portions of the environment.

 To support full VMS and full VMS DECwindows, a system disk of greater
 than 115 MB is recommended. When a smaller disk is used, additional
 tailoring is required prior to installing some VMS and VMS DECwindows

                                 36

 

 options. Refer to the VMS Upgrade and Installation Procedures for in-
 formation on tailoring.

 The VMS DECwindows software installation is an optional step in the
 VMS installation or upgrade procedure. It has been designed this way
 to allow users who do not need the VMS DECwindows software to conserve
 disk space and to allow systems with less than minimum configuration
 requirements to continue to run VMS. Please refer to the VMS Instal-
 lation and Upgrade Manual for details concerning the partial instal-
 lation of the VMS DECwindows software.

 Memory Requirements

 The following tables describe the minimum amount of memory required
 for a system user to install, boot, and login to a VMS system. To en-
 sure satisfactory performance of applications, additional memory will
 be required.

 The minimum amount of memory supported for a stand-alone VMS system
 is 2 MB. This first table contains the minimum amount of additional
 memory required for the following components to be installed on a VMS
 system.
 

 ___________________________________________________________________
 Component_______Necessary_Memory___________________________________

 DECnet          .5 MB

 VAXcluster      1.5 MB

 DECwindows      1.5 MB
 with remote
 execution of
 applications

 DECwindows      2.0 MB
 with local
 execution of
 applications_______________________________________________________

 Two example configurations based on the previous table are:

                                 37

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
 System__________Minimum_Supported_Memory___________________________

 DECwindows      4.0 MB
 with ap-
 plications
 executing re-
 motely, and
 DECnet

 DECwindows      6.0 MB
 with ap-
 plications
 executing
 locally, VAX-
 cluster and
 DECnet_____________________________________________________________

 Note: These are the minimum memory requirements. More memory will be
 required for satisfactory performance of the operating system and DECwin-
 dows applications. The performance and memory usage of VMS DECwindows
 systems is particularly sensitive to system configuration and window
 and application usage. Remote execution of an application requires an
 additional system that runs the application while the display of the
 application occurs on the local workstation.

 Please refer to specific layered product Software Product Descriptions
 for their memory requirements.

 Please refer to the VMS documentation for more information on perfor-
 mance.







                                 38

 

 GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS

 The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
 this product may be different from the requirements for the current
 version.

 DISTRIBUTION MEDIA

 Compact Disc

 9-track 1600 BPI Magnetic tape, TK50 Streaming Tape

 The VMS Operating System is also available as part of the VMS Consol-
 idated Software Distribution on CDROM.

 The VMS Documentation is also available as part of the VMS Online Doc-
 umentation Library on CDROM.

 DOCUMENTATION

 Extensive documentation is available for VMS. The documentation is or-
 ganized into functional subkits, based on usage. For example, all sys-
 tem management manuals are in one subkit. An easy-to-use desk-top set
 of manuals is also available for users who do not require extensive
 documentation.

 Documentation for VMS DECwindows is available in two different sets.
 The VMS DECwindows User Kit is for the end user and the VMS DECwin-
 dows Programming Kit is for the DECwindows software developer.

 In addition, the VMS Online Documentation Library compact disc con-
 tains the following VMS documentation, which can be read using the DECwin-
 dows Bookreader application:

 o  VMS Base Documentation Set

 o  VMS Extended Documentation Set



                                 39

 

 o  VMS DECwindows User Kit and Programmer Kit[1]

 o  Selected VMS Layered Product Documentation

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 This section contains order numbers for VMS media, licenses, documen-
 tation, and services.

 ORDERING INFORMATION This section contains order numbers for OpenVMS
 media, licenses, documentation, and services.
 Software Licenses

 QL-001A*-** VAX VMS Operating System License for OpenVMS
 QL-005A*-** OpenVMS O/S Base License
 QL-XULA*-** OpenVMS Interactive User License

 Media and Documentation

 With Base Documentation Set: QA-09SA*-H*
 With Extended Documentation Set: QA-001A*-H*

 Additional Media

 VMS Consolidated Software Distribution on
    CDROM: QA-VWJ8A-A8

 Additional Documentation Sets

 Base Documentation Set: QA-09SAA-GZ
 Extended Documentation Set: QA-001AA-GZ
 DECwindows User Kit Documentation:[1]
    QA-09SAB-GZ
 DECwindows Programmers Kit Documentation:
    QA-001AM-GZ
 VMS Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc:
    QA-VYR8A-G8

 ____________________
 With   the exception of the Adobe PostScript Documentation, which is

   not available online

                                 40

 

 [1]Included in both VMS Base Documentation and Extended Documentation
 Sets.

 Software Product Services

 Software Support Service:[2]
 QT-001A*-** VAX VMS Operating System Software Support Service for Open-
 VMS
 QT-005A*-** OpenVMS O/S Base Software Support Service
 QT-XULA*-** OpenVMS Interactive User Software Support Service

 [2]A variety of integrated and a la carte Hardware and Software Prod-
 ucts are available. For additional information, please contact your
 local office.

 Media and Documentation Update Service

 With Base Documentation Set: QT-09SA*-E*
 With Extended Documentation Set: QT-001A*-E*

 Additional Media Update Service

 VMS Consolidated Software Distribution on
    CDROM: QT-VWJ8A-C8

 Documentation Only Update Service

 Base Documentation Set: QT-09SAA-KZ
 Extended Documentation Set: QT-001AA-KZ
 VMS Online Documentation Library on Compact Disc:
    QT-VYR8A-C8

 The Software Media and Extended Documentation Set (QA-001A*-H*) is rec-
 ommended for users managing high-end VAX systems, e.g., VAX 6000 610,
 VAXcluster systems, or DECnet-VAX networks. The Software Media and Base
 Documentation Set (QA-09SA*-H*) is recommended for managers of small
 standalone systems and for general end-users.

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

                                 41

 

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 The VMS software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Dig-
 ital's Standard Terms and Conditions.

 Digital offers a separately orderable layered product called VMS DECwin-
 dows Motif. Refer to the VMS DECwindows Motif SPD (SPD 36.09.xx) for
 more information.

 Integral to VMS is support for the VMS DECwindows desktop environment,
 which is delivered as a component of the VMS Operating System, requir-
 ing no separate license.

 Customers who wish to run DECwindows over TCP/IP need only purchase
 the VMS/ULTRIX Connection product media and documentation kit. A sep-
 arate license is not required. Customers who want to utilize the full
 VMS/ULTRIX Connection functionality (FTP, NFS, TELNET) do need to pur-
 chase a separate license. Refer to the VMS/ULTRIX Connection System
 Support Addendum (SSA 25.A4.xx-x) for required versions.

 Please see the Third Party Licensing section in Appendix C for infor-
 mation regarding the Adobe licensing.

 The System Integrated Products (SIPs), VAXcluster Software (SPD 29.78.xx),
 DECnet-VAX (SPD 25.03.xx), VAX Volume Shadowing (SPD 27.29.xx), and
 VAX RMS Journaling (SPD 27.58.xx) are separately licensed products.
 Please refer to the appropriate product's SPD for more information.

 Software License Information

 The VMS Operating System uses one of two different categories of li-
 censes depending on the hardware and software configurations used and
 currently supported. This information is also provided in the appli-
 cable country's Price List.

 These are the two categories of Operating System licenses for Open-
 VMS:

 1. VAX VMS Licensing
 2. OpenVMS Licensing

                                 42

 

 Digital provides the proper license type with the purchase of the sys-
 tem. Not all VMS license types are available for all system models.

 VAX VMS License Information

 The VAX VMS licenses include the rights for the VAX Rdb/VMS Run-Time
 Option. This allows the running of an application developed using VAX
 Rdb/VMS. However, VAX Rdb/VMS has separate media and documentation.
 In addition, should a user want to perform Rdb development, a sepa-
 rate license must be purchased. Refer to SPD 25.59.xx for further in-
 formation.

 There are four types of VAX VMS licenses:

 1. Traditional License (QL-001A*-**)

 This type of license provides unlimited use to the users on a defined
 system. VAX VMS traditional licenses are sized to capacity according
 to system type.

 2. Multi-user License (QL-001A*-**)

 This type of license provides use according to a specified number of
 concurrent users. This is an activity-based license. The Multi-user
 License provides the customer with the right to use the operating sys-
 tem up to the limit of users specified in the license. An operating
 system "User" is a person who is logged onto the system and/or is us-
 ing the system interactively. Interactive use of the operating sys-
 tem includes the display of information upon any video or hardcopy dis-
 play product whether in a DECwindows/X Windows environment or other-
 wise. This license is only available on limited system models, pri-
 marily MicroVAX and VAX 4000 systems.

 3. VAX VMS Workstation License (QL-001A*-**)

 This type of license provides use for a single user on a VAX Worksta-
 tion.

 4. File and Application Server License (QL-001A*-**)

                                 43

 

 This type of license provides for the non-interactive use of OpenVMS.

 OpenVMS-based VAXservers are sold with a File and Application Server
 License. The intent of an OpenVMS-based VAXserver is to provide file,
 print, application, and compute "services" to "clients" who have re-
 motely submitted their requests (for example via network/remote sub-
 mit/batch jobs, etc.).
 The software licensing stipulates that no direct operating system log-
 ons by users are permitted on the OpenVMS-based VAXserver. One direct
 log-on is allowed for system management purposes only.
 While remote submission of OpenVMS-based applications for execution
 on a OpenVMS-based VAXserver is allowed, interactive use (direct log-
 on and execution) of OpenVMS-based layered products is prohibited.
 All VAX VMS licenses provide the right to use only the OpenVMS fea-
 tures, functionality, and facilities provided by the current version
 license. Any features, functionality, and facilities not specifically
 licensed in the purchased version of OpenVMS may not be used if a prior
 version kit containing such unlicensed features is installed.
 Not all VAX VMS license types are available for all versions of VMS,
 OpenVMS or all VAX models.

 OpenVMS License Information

 There are two types of OpenVMS licenses:

 1. OpenVMS O/S Base License (QL-005A*-**)

 OpenVMS O/S Base License grants the right to unrestricted, non-interactive
 use of the OpenVMS Operating System for the execution of remotely sub-
 mitted requests for batch, print, application, and computing services,
 on a designated, single processor.

 No direct OpenVMS operating system log-ons by users are permitted on
 the system. One direct log-on is allowed for system management pur-
 poses only.

 The OpenVMS Base License does not include the license right for the
 VAX Rdb/VMS Run-Time Option. The Rdb/VMS Run-Time License is avail-
 able separately.

                                 44

 

 Interactive use of systems licensed with an OpenVMS O/S Base License
 requires the addition of an OpenVMS Interactive User License (for one
 or more users).

 The OpenVMS O/S Base License provides the right to use only the Open-
 VMS features, functionality, and facilities provided by the current
 version. Any features, functionality, and facilities not specifically
 licensed in the purchased version of OpenVMS may not be used if a prior
 version kit containing such unlicensed features is installed.

 2. OpenVMS Interactive User License (QL-XULA*-**)

 The OpenVMS Interactive User License provides the right to interac-
 tively use the operating system by the specified, or unlimited, num-
 ber of concurrent users, on a designated, single processor. A user is
 an individual who is logged on to a processor and/or is interactively
 using the operating system software by means other than login. An Open-
 VMS O/S Base License is a prerequisite to the OpenVMS Interactive User
 License.

 This license grants the right to use the same version of the operat-
 ing system that is permitted under the corresponding O/S Base License
 at the time of the initial installation of the Interactive User Li-
 cense.

 In-cabinet upgrades are supported with OpenVMS licensing. When upgrad-
 ing a processor, the customer is required to upgrade the operating sys-
 tem licenses. For OpenVMS, this is accomplished with a BASE upgrade
 license that upgrades the O/S BASE license and permits the use of all
 "specified quantity" (e.g., 4 user) interactive licenses on the pro-
 cessor. For unlimited user licenses, an additional upgrade license for
 Unlimited Interactive User is required.

 The OpenVMS O/S Base and Interactive Use licenses are not supported
 by VMS or OpenVMS operating system releases prior to OpenVMS Version
 5.5.

 Digital provides the proper license type with the purchase of the sys-
 tem. Not all OpenVMS license types are available for all system mod-
 els.

                                 45

 

 License Management Facility Support

 The VMS Operating System supports the License Management Facility.

 If no VMS license is registered and activated using the License Man-
 agement Facility, then a single login is permitted for system manage-
 ment purposes through the system console (OPA0:).

 Several of the VAX VMS and OpenVMS license types are based on the num-
 ber of concurrent users, called an activity license. Every product has
 the option to define an activity as related to the License Management
 Facility. OpenVMS defines activities, sometimes referred to as an Open-
 VMS "user," as follows:

 o  Each remote terminal connection is considered an activity. This is
    true even if you set host to your local node (SET HOST 0).

 o  Each connection from a terminal server is considered an activity.

 o  A multiple-window session on a workstation is considered one ac-
    tivity, regardless of the number of windows.

 o  A batch job is not considered an activity.

 o  A remote network connection that is a connection other than a re-
    mote terminal connection, is not considered an activity.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD and the applicable Digital Standard Terms and Con-
 ditions.

                                 46

 

 SUPPORTED HARDWARE FOR VMS, VMS DECwindows, VAXcluster, and
 DECnet-VAX

 This section of the SPD contains four parts: Hardware Charts, Appendix
 A, Appendix B, and Appendix C.

 The charts list the hardware that VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX, and
 VAXcluster Software supports. Combinations of hardware options are sub-
 ject to limitations such as bandwidth, physical configuration constraints,
 and electrical load and power supply.

 Appendix A describes system-specific restrictions for the configura-
 tions listed.

 Appendix B describes Digital terminals, disks, tapes, controllers, com-
 munications options, and VAXcluster options. Some restrictions for spe-
 cific devices are listed if applicable.

 The content of this hardware configuration appendix is intended to spec-
 ify the device limitations and provide a general guide. It does not
 describe all possible hardware configurations or circumstances. Any
 particular configuration should be discussed with Digital. Contact Dig-
 ital for the most up-to-date information on possible hardware config-
 urations.

 Digital reserves the right to change the number and type of devices
 supported by VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX, and VAXcluster Software.
 The minimum hardware requirements for future versions and updates of
 VMS, VMS DECwindows, DECnet-VAX, and VAXcluster Software may be dif-
 ferent from current hardware requirements. For configuration details
 about VAX hardware, refer to the VAX System and Options Catalog and
 the Networks and Communications Buyers Guide.

 Refer to the individual SPDs for DECnet-VAX (SPD 25.03.xx) and VAX-
 cluster Software (SPD 29.78.xx) for detailed product information.

 How to Read the Charts



                                 47

 

 The first column lists the VAX system, the media (tape, disk, or com-
 pact disc) from which the VMS Operating System can be loaded onto the
 system disk, and the maximum number of busses supported on the sys-
 tem.

 The second column lists the disk controllers and drives that can be
 used on the system. A disk controller can be used with any disk drive
 listed next to it: for example, on a MicroVAX II or VAXstation II sys-
 tem the RQDX3 disk controller can be used with an RD52, RD53, RD54,
 RX50, or RX33 disk drive.

 The third column lists the tape controllers and drives that can be used
 on the system. The tape controller can be used with any tape drive listed
 next to it: for example, on a MicroVAX II or VAXstation II system, the
 TQK50 controller can be used with the TK50 tape drive.

 The fourth and fifth columns list the communications and VAXcluster
 options available for the systems. The listed Ethernet devices can also
 be used for network connections.

 The sixth column lists other hardware that can be used and the max-
 imum amount of memory allowed on the systems in each category.


















                                 48

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 MicroVAX IKDA50    RA-       TQK50  TK50      Asynch- CXA16*+  DEQNA    DRV11-
           RQDX2    series*          TK70                       DELQA    WA*
 VAXstation                   TQK70  TS05             CXB16*+   DESQ#    LPV11
 II                 RD51             TU81-                               VCB01-
                    RD52      TSV05  Plus*            CXY08*             KP
 (Load     RQDX3    RD53             RV20*            DZV11              (VsII)
 Media)             RX50      KLESI                   DHV11*             VCB02-
 TK50               RD52                              DHQ11              B
 Magtape            RD53                              DZQ11              (VsII
 RX33##             RD54                       Synch-                    /GPX)
 CDROM     KRQ50    RX50                              DMV11              VCB02-
                    RX33                              DSV11              D
 (BUSSES)  KLESI    RRD50                                                (VsII
           KFQSA    RRD40                                                /GPX)
 1 Q-bus            RC25                                                 RQDXE
 2                  (DSSI)
 DSSI**             RF30                                                 16
                    RF71                                                 MB Max
                                                                         Mem

 * Can be used on a MicroVAX II system only.
 ** Only available via the KFQSA.
 + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
 # Only available with BA200-series enclosures.
 ## VMS distribution on this media has been re-
 tired.
 Supports_Display_PostScript._______________________________________




                                 49

 

 

 MicroVAX  Integral RD32      TZK50  TK50      Asynch- DST32*+  Integral VS40X
 2000               RD53                                                 (Vs2000)
 VAXstation         RD54                              DSH32
 2000               RX33
                                               Synch- DST32*+            14
 (Load                                                                   MB Max
 Media)                                               DSH32*             Mem
 TK50
 RX33#

 (BUSSES)

 N/A

 * Can be used on a MicroVAX 2000 system only.
 # VMS distribution on this media has been retired.
 + Concurrent use of the DST32 and the DHT32 is not supported.
 Supports Display PostScript.

 ________________________________________________________________________________


















                                 50

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 MicroVAX  Integral RX23      TKZ50  TK50Z     DSH32            Integral 32 MB
 3100               RZ23             TZ30                                Max
 VAXserver          RZ24             TLZ04     (1                        Mem
 3100               RZ25             TZK10     sync.
 Models             RZ55                       & 8
 10/10e             RZ56                       async.
 20/20e             RZ57                       lines)
                    RRD40
 (Load              RRD42
 Media*)            RX26
 TK50               RZ23L
 CDROM

 (BUSSES)

 Integral
 SCSI

 * Factory-loaded software on all configurations that include RZ23L, RZ24, and
 RZ25 internal disks.

 ________________________________________________________________________________









                                 51

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 *MicroVAX Integral RX33+            TK50Z+           DHW41-    Integral Models
 3100               RZ24             TZ30             AA                 30/40
 Models             RZ25             TLZ04+           DHW41-             32 MB
 30/40              RZ55+            TZK10            BA                 Max
 /80/90             RZ56+            TZ85+            DHW42-             Mem
                    RZ57+                             AA
 (Load              RZ58+                             DHW42-             Model
 Media*)            RRD42                             BA                 80
 TK50               RZ26                              DHW42-             72 MB
 CDROM              RX26                              UP                 Max
 TZ85               RZ23L                             DHW42-             Mem
                    RZ24L                             CA
 (BUSSES)                                             DSW41-             Model
                                                      AA                 90
 Integral                                             DSW42-             128
                                                      AA                 MB Max
 SCSI                                                                    Mem

 *Factory-loaded software on all configurations that include RZ24L, RZ25 and
 RZ26 internal disks
 +External_device_only______________________________________________










                                 52

 

 

 VAXstation Integral RZ22     IntegralTK50Z                     Integral WS01X
 3100               RZ23             TZ30                                VCB02
 Series             RZ24                                                 Graph-
                    RZ55                                                 ics
 (Load              RZ56                                                 VS40X-
 Media)             RRD40                                                PA
 TK50               RX23                                                 Graph-
 CDROM                                                                   ics
                                                                         Coprocessor
 (BUS)
 SCSI
                                                                         32
                                                                         MB Max
                                                                         Mem

 Supports Display PostScript.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAXstation RQDX3   RD53      TQK50  TK50      Asynch- DHV11    DELQA    Graphics
 3200               RD54             TS05             DZQ11              Sub-
           KRQ50    RRD40     TSV05                                      system
 (Load              RRD50                             DSV11              for
 Media)                                        Synch-                    the
 TK50                                                                    Vs3200
 CDROM
                                                                         32MB
 (BUS)                                                                   Max
 1 Q-bus                                                                 Mem

 Supports Display PostScript.

 ________________________________________________________________________________



                                 53

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 MicroVAX  Integral RF30      TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+            52 MB
 3300               RF31             TK50             CXB16+             Max
 /3400              RF31F     TQK50  TF85             CXY08              Mem
 VAXserver          RF71             TF857
 3300      KFQSA    RF72      KFQSA  TS05             DSV11
 /3400              RRD40            TU81-     Synch-
           KRQ50    RRD50            Plus
 (Load              RRD42     TSV05
 Media)    KZQSA    TLZ04
 TK50               RA-       KLESI
 CDROM     KDA50    series
 Magtape

 (BUSSES)

 1 DSSI*
 1 Q-bus

 * Second DSSI available only via the KFQSA.
 + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
 Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
 options.___________________________________________________________









                                 54

 

 

 MicroVAX  RQDX3    RD53*     TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DELQA    Graphics
 3500               RD54*            TK50             CXB16+    DESQA    Sub-
 VAXserver KDA50    RA-       TQK50  TS05             CXY08              system
 3500      KRQ50    series           TF85                                for
 VAXstation         RRD40     TSV05  TF857            DSV11              the
 3500      KZQSA    RRD50            TU81-     Synch-                    Vs3500
                    RRD42            Plus
 (Load     KFQSA    TLZ04                                                64MB
 Media)             RF30      KFQSA                                      Max
 TK50               RF31                                                 Mem
 Magtape            FR31F     KLESI
 CDROM              RF71
                    RF72      RV20
 (BUSSES)

 1 Q-bus
 1 DSSI
 **

 * Available on MicroVAX 3500 system only.
 + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
 ** Only available via the KFQSA.
 Supports Display PostScript.
 Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
 options.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAXstation I/O     RZ55      TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   Integral Graphic
 3520      Adapter  RZ56                              CXB16+             Subsys-
 VAXstation         RRD40                             CXY08
 3540                                                                    tem
                                                      DSV11              for
 (Load                                         Synch-                    the
 Media)                                                                  Vs3520
 TK50                                                                    /3540
 CDROM                                                                   VCB03
                                                                         op-
 (BUSSES)                                                                tional
                                 55                                      graph-

 1 SCSI                                                                  ics
 1 Q-bus
                                                                         64MB
                                                                         Max
                                                                         Mem

 Supports Display PostScript.
 + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
 Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
 options.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 MicroVAX  KDA50    RA-       TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DELQA    64 MB
 3600      KRQ50    series           TK50             CXB16+    DESQA    Max
 VAXserver          RRD40     TQK50  TS05             CXY08              Mem
 3600      KZQSA    RRD50            TU81-
 VAXserver          RRD42     TSV05  Plus             DSV11
 3602      KFQSA    TLZ04            RV20      Synch-
                    RF30      KLESI  TF85
 (Load              RF31             TF857
 Media)             RF31F     KFQSA
 TK50               RF71
 Magtape            RF72
 CDROM

 (BUSSES)

 1 Q-bus
 1
 DSSI**

 + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
 ** Only available via the KFQSA.
 Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
 options.___________________________________________________________








                                 56

 

 

 MicroVAX  KFQSA    RF30      TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DESQA    64 MB
 3800               RF31             TK50             CXB16+    DELQA    Max
 VAXserver          RF31F     TQK50  TS05             CXY08              Mem
 3800               RF71             TU81-
                    RF72      TSV05  Plus             DSV11
 (Load     KRQ50    RRD40            TF85      Synch-
 Media)             RRD50     KLESI  TF857
 TK50      KZQSA    RRD42
 CDROM              TLZ04     KFQSA
           KDA50    RA-
 (BUSSES)           series

 1 Q-bus
 1 DSSI*

 * Only available via the KFQSA.
 + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
 Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus
 options.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 MicroVAX  KDA50    RA-       TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   DESQA    64 MB
 3900      KRQ50    series           TK50             CXB16+    DELQA    Max
 VAXserver          RRD40     TQK50  TU81-            CXY08              Mem
 3900      KZQSA    RRD50            Plus
                    RRD42     KLESI  TS05             DSV11
 (Load     KFQSA    TLZ04            TF85      Synch-
 Media)             RF30      TSV05  TF857
 TK50               RF31
 CDROM              RF31F     KFQSA
 Magtape            RF71
                    RF72
 (BUS)
 1 Q-bus
 1 DSSI*

 * Only available via the KFQSA.
 + DECnet-VAX does not support these options.
 Note: Refer to the Systems and Options Catalog for listing of supported Q-bus

 options.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAXstation Integral RZ22     IntegralTK50Z    Synch- DSW21     Integral PV21X,
 4000*              RZ23             TZ30             DWCTX-             PV61G
 Models             RZ23L            TZK10            BX        (Ethernet)(Model
 60/VLC             RZ24             TLZ04                               60)
                    RZ24L            TLZ06                               Graph-
 (Load              RZ25                                                 ics
 Media)             RZ55                                                 PV31G
 TK50               RZ56                                                 (VLC)
 CDROM              RRD40                                                Graph-
                    RX23                                                 ics
 (BUS)              RZ57                                                 PMAZ
 SCSI               RZ58                                                 VSXXX-
                    RX26                                                 AA,
                    RX33                                                 VSXXX-
                    RRD42                                                GA
                                                                         mouse
                                                                         VSX10,
                                                                         VSX20,
                                                                         VSX30
                                                                         dial
                                                                         box
                                                                         LK201
                                                                         LK401
                                                                         VSXXX-
                                                                         AB
                                                                         (tablet)

                                                                         VSXXX-
                                                                         JA
                                                                         (head-
                                                                         set)

                                                                         VLC
                                 58                                      24 MB
                                                                         Max
                                                                         Mem

                                                                         Model
                                                                         60
                                                                         104
                                                                         MB Max
                                                                         Mem

 *Factory-loaded software on all configurations that include internal disks
 (RZ24, and RZ25)
 Supports Display PostScript.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 

 *VAXstationIntegral RZ23     IntegralTK50Z    Synch- DSW21-    Integral
 4000               RZ24             TZ30             AA,AB,AC,          PV71G-
 Model              RZ24L            TZK10                      (Ethernet)AA
 90                 RZ57             TLZ04            -                  PV71G-
                    RZ58             TLZ06            AD,AE,AF           BA
 (Load              RWZ01                                                PV71G-
 Media)             RRD42                                                CA
 TK50                                                                    LCSPX
 CDROM                                                                   SPXg
                                                                         /gt
 (BUS)                                                                   DWCTX-
 SCSI                                                                    BX
                                                                         VSXXX-
                                                                         AA,
                                                                         VSXXX-
                                                                         GA
                                                                         mouse
                                                                         VSX10,
                                                                         VSX20,
                                                                         VSX30
                                                                         dial
                                                                         box
                                                                         LK201
                                                                         LK401
                                                                         VSXXX-
                                                                         AB
                                                                         (tablet)

                                                                         VSXXX-
                                                                         JA
                                                                         (head-
                                                                         set)

                                                                         Model
                                                                         90
                                                                         128
                                                                         MB Max
                                                                         Mem

 *Factory-loaded software on all configurations that include internal disks
 (RZ24L, and RZ25)
 Supports Display Postscript.

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX-11    UDA50    RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA+   CR11
 /730      RK711    series    TUK50  TU80             DZ11      DELUA+   DR11-W
           RL211    RK07             TU81             DZ32               DMF32-
 (Load     RX211    RL02      KLESI  TU81-            DMZ32              LP
 Media)    RUX50    RX02             Plus             DHU11              LP11
 RL02*     (IntegralRX50                                                 LPA11
 Magtape                                              DMF32              FP730
           IDC      RL02                       Synch- DMR11
 (BUS)              R80                                                  5
 1                                                                       MB Max
 UNIBUS                                                                  Mem

 * VMS distribution on this media has been retired.
 + VAX-11/730 systems are not supported in VAXclus-
 ter systems.

 ________________________________________________________________________________














                                 60

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX-11    UDA50    RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA    DMF32-
 /750      RK711    series    KLESI  TU80             DZ11      DELUA    LP
           RL211    RK07             TU81             DZ32      (CI)     DR11-W
 (Load     RX211    RL02             TU81-            DMZ32     CI750    DR750
 Media)    KLESI    RX02             Plus             DHU11              DW750
 RL02*     RUX50    RC25             RV20                                FP750
 RK07*              RX50      TUK50  TK50             DMF32              H7112
 RA60*              RM03             TA-       Synch- DMR11              KU750
 Magtape            RM05             series                              LPA11
                    RM80      (CI)                                       RH750
 (BUSSES)           RP06      HSC                                        LP11
           (CI)     RP07      TM03   TE16
 2         HSC                TM78   TU77                                14
 UNIBUS             ESE-20           TU78                                MB Max
 3 MASS-            RA-                                                  Mem
 BUS                series

 * VMS is not distributed on this media type.

 ________________________________________________________________________________











                                 61

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX-11    UDA50    RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA    DM32-
 /780      RK711    series    KLESI  TU80             DZ11      DELUA    FP
 VAX-11    RL211    RK06             TU81             DMZ32     (CI)     DR11-W
 /785      RX211    RK07             TU81-            DHU11     CI780    DR780
           KLESI    RL02             Plus                                DW780
 (Load     RUX50    RX02             RV20             DMF32              H7112
 Media)             RC25      TUK50  TK50      Synch- DMR11              FP780**
 RK07*              RX50             TA-
 RA60*              RM03             series                              FP785***
 Magtape            RM05      (CI)
                    RM80      HCS                                        KE780**
 (BUSSES)           RP05      TM03   TE16
                    RP06      TM78   TU45                                KU780**
 4         (CI)     RP07             TU77
 UNIBUS    HCS                       TU78                                RH780
 4 MASS-            ESE-20                                               LP11
 BUS                RA-
                    series                                               64
                                                                         MB Max
                                                                         Mem

 * VMS is not distributed on this media.
 ** These options are used on the VAX-11/780 only.
 ***_Used_on_the_VAX-11/785.________________________________________







                                 62

 

 

 VAXft     KFE52    RF31      KFE52  TF70      Synch- DSF32     Integral 128
 Models             RF72                                                 MB Max
 110/310                                                                 Mem

 (Load
 Media)
 TK50
 CDROM
 via
 InfoS-
 erver

 (Busses)

 2 DSSI

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAXft     KFE52    RF31      KFE52  TF70      Synch- DSF32     Integral 256
 Models             RF72             TF85                                MB Max
 410/610            RF73      (Model TF857                               Mem
 /                            610
 612                          /612
                              only)
 (Load
 Media)                       KFQSA
 TK50
 CDROM
 via
 InfoS-
 erver

 (Busses)

 2 DSSI

 ________________________________________________________________________________

                                 63

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX       Integral RF30      IntegralRSV20    Asynch- DHW42-   Integral 128
 4000      &        RF31             TF85             AA                 MB Max
 Model     KFQSA    RF31F     KZQSA  TF857            DHW42-    DELQA    Mem
 100                RF31T            TZK10            BA        DESQA
                    RF35      KFQSA  TZ30             DHW42-
 (Load              RF71             TLZ04     Synch- UP
 Media)             RF72      TSV05  TLZ06            DHW42-
 TK50               RF73             TS05             CA
 CDROM     KDA50    RA-       KLESI  TSZ07            DSW42-
           KRQ50    series           TU81-            AA
 (BUS)     KZQSA    RRD40            Plus
 1 Q-bus            RRD42
 2 DSSI             RWZ01
                    RX26

 Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

 ________________________________________________________________________________













                                 64

 

 

 VAX       Integral RF30      TQK50  RSV20     Asynch- CXA16+   Integral 64 MB
 4000      &        RF31             TF85             CXB16+             Max
 Model     KFQSA    RF31F     TQK70  TF857            CXY08     DELQA    Mem
 200                RF35             TLZ04                      DESQA
                    RF71      TSV05  TS05             DPV11
 (Load              RF72             TSZ07     Synch- DSV11
 Media)             RF73      KLESI  TK50
 TK50               RA-              TK70
 CDROM     KDA50    series    KZQSA  TU81-
           KRQ50    RRD40            Plus
 (BUS)     KZQSA    RRD42     Integral
 1 Q-bus                      &
 4 DSSI                       KFQSA

 Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAX       Integral RF30      TQK70  TK70      Asynch- CXA16+   Integral 256
 4000      &        RF31             TS05                                MB Max
 Model     KFQSA    RF71      TQK50  TU81-            CXB16+    DESQA    Mem
 300                RF31F            Plus      Synch- CXY08     DELQA
                    RF72      TSV05  TK50             DSV11
 (Load              RF73             RSV20            DPV11
 Media)             RF25      KLESI  TLZ04
 TK50               RA-              TSZ07
 CDROM     KDA50    series    KZQSA  TF85
           KRQ50                     TF857
 (BUS)     KZQSA    RRD40     Integral
 1 Q-bus            RRD42     &
 4 DSSI                       KFQSA

 Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

                                 65

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX       Integral RF30      TQK50  RSV20     Asynch- CXA16+   Integral 512
 4000      &        RF31             TF85                                MB Max
 Model     KFQSA    RF31F     TQK70  TF857            CXB16+    DELQA    Mem
 400                RF31T            TLZ04     Synch- CXY08     DESQA
                    RF35      TSV05  TS05             DPV11
 (Load              RF71             TSZ07            DSV11
 Media)             RF72      KLESI  TK50
 TK50               RF73             TK70
 CDROM     KDA50    RA-       KZQSA  TU81-
           KRQ50    series           Plus
 (BUS)     KZQSA    RRD40     IntegralTLZ06
 1 Q-bus            RRD42     &
 4 DSSI             RWZ01     KFQSA

 Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

 ________________________________________________________________________________














                                 66

 

 

 VAX       Integral RF30      TQK50  RSV20     Asynch- CXA16+   Integral 512
 4000      &        RF31             TF85                                MB Max
 Model     KFQSA    RF31F     TQK70  TF857            CXB16+    DELQA    Mem
 500                RF31T            TLZ04     Synch- CXY08     DESQA
                    RF35      TSV05  TS05             DPV11
 (Load              RF71             TSZ07            DSV11
 Media)             RF72      KLESI  TK50
 TK50               RF73             TK70
 CDROM     KDA50    RA-       KZQSA  TU81-
           KRQ50    series           Plus
 (BUS)     KZQSA    RRD40     IntegralTLZ06
 1 Q-bus            RRD42     &
 4 DSSI             RWZ01     KFQSA

 Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAX       Integral RF30      TQK50  RSV20     Asynch- CXA16+   Integral 512
 4000      &        RF31             TF85                                MB Max
 Model     KFQSA    RF31F     TQK70  TF857            CXB16+    DELQA    Mem
 600                RF31T            TLZ04     Synch- CXY08     DESQA
                    RF35      TSV05  TS05             DPV11
 (Load              RF71             TSZ07            DSV11
 Media)             RF72      KLESI  TK50
 TK50               RF73             TK70
 CDROM     KDA50    RA-       KZQSA  TU81-
           KRQ50    series           Plus
 (BUS)     KZQSA    RRD40     IntegralTLZ06
 1 Q-bus            RRD42     &
 4 DSSI             RWZ01     KFQSA

 Note: Factory loaded software on all configurations that contain a disk.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

                                 67

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX 6000- KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA    LP11*
 200       KDM70    series           Plus             DHB32     DEBNI    DMB32-
 Series+   TM32               TBK50  RV20                       DEMNA    LP
 VAXserver (CI)                      TK50             DMB32     DEMFA    DR11-W*
 6000-     HSC                TBK70  TK70      Synch- DSB32     (CI)
 210                ESE-20                                      CIBCA-   DWMUA*
 VAXserver          RA-              TA-                        AA       DRB32
 6000-              series    (CI)   series                     CIBCA-
 220                          HSC                               BA
                              KDM70                             CIXCD-   512
 (Load                                                          AB       MB Max
 Media)                                                                  Mem
 TK50
 Magtape
 CDROM
 via
 InfoS-
 erver

 (BUSSES)

 6 VAXBI
 1
 UNIBUS
 2 VME
 (DWMVA)
 KFMSA

 + Formerly named the VAX 6210, 6220, 6230, 6240.
 * Supported on the VAX 6000-210 and VAX 6000-220
 systems_only.______________________________________________________

                                 68

 

 

 VAX 6000- KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA    LP11*
 300       KDM70    series           Plus             DHB32     DEBNI    DMB32-
 Series+   TM32               TBK50  TK50                       DEMNA    M
 VAXserver (CI)                      TK70             DMB32     DEMFA    DR11-W*
 6000-     HSC                TBK70            Synch- DSB32     (CI)
 310/320            ESE-20           TA-                        CIBCA-   DRB32
                    RA-       (CI)   series                     AA       DWMUA*
 (Load              series    HSC                               CIBCA-
 Media)                       KDM70                             BA       512
 TK50                                                           CIXCD-   MB Max
 Magtape                                                        AB       Mem
 CDROM
 via
 InfoS-
 erver

 (BUSSES)

 6 VAXBI
 1
 UNIBUS*
 2 VME
 (DWMVA)
 KFMSA

 + Formerly named the VAX 6310, 6320, 6330, 6340,
 6360.
 * Supported on the VAX 6000-310 and VAX 6000-320
 systems only.

 ________________________________________________________________________________







                                 69

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX 6000- KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU80-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA    LPA11
 400       KDM70    series           Plus             DHB32     DEBNI    DR11-W
 Series    TM32               TBK70  TK70                       DEMNA    FV64A
 VAXserver                           TK50             DMB32     DEMFA    DMB32
 6000-                        TBK50            Synch- DSB32     (CI)     DRB32
 410/420                             TA-                        CIBCA-
                              (CI)   series                     BA       512
 (Load                        HSC                               CIXCD-   MB Max
 Media)                                                         AB       Mem
 TK50
 Magtape
 CDROM
 via
 InfoS-
 erver

 (BUSSES)

 6 VAXBI
 1
 UNIBUS
 2 VME
 (DWMVA)
 KFMSA______________________________________________________________







                                 70

 

 

 VAX 6000- KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU80-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA    FV64A
 500       KDM70    series           Plus             DHB32     DEBNI    DMB32
 Series    TM32               TBK70  TK70                       DEMNA    DRB32
 VAXserver                           TK50             DMB32     DEMFA
 6000-                        TBK50            Synch- DSB32     (CI)     512
 510/520                             TA-                        CIBCA-   MB Max
                              (CI)   series                     BA       Mem
 (Load                        HSC                               CIXCD-
 Media)                                                         AB
 TK50
 Magtape
 CDROM
 via
 InfoS-
 erver

 (BUSSES)

 6 VAXBI
 2 VME
 (DWMVA)
 KFMSA

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAX 6000- KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU80-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA    DMB32
 600       KDM70    series           Plus             DHB32     DEBNI    DRB32
 Series    TM32               TBK70  TK70                       DEMNA
                                     TK50             DMB32     DEMFA    512
 (Load                        TBK50            Synch- DSB32     (CI)     MB Max
 Media)                              TA-                        CIBCA-
 TK50                         (CI)   series                     BA
 Magtape                      HSC                               CIXCD-
 CDROM                                                          AB
 via
 InfoS-
 erver

 (BUSSES)
                                 71

 6 VAXBI
 2 VME
 (DWMVA)
 KFMSA

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX 8200  KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA    DMB32-
           (CI)     series           Plus             DMB32     DEBNI    LP
 VAX 8250  HSC                TM32   RV20             DHU11     DELUA    DR11-W
                    ESE-20    TS11   RV64             DMF32     (CI)     DWBUA
                    RA-       TUK50  TU80             DMZ32     CIBCA-   DRB32
 (Load              series           TU81                       AA       LP11
 Media)                       TBK50  TU81-            DMB32     CIBCA-
 Magtape                             Plus      Synch- DSB32     BA       128
 RA60*                                                          CIBCI    MB Max
 TK50                         (CI)   TK50                                Mem
                              HSC    TA-
 (BUSSES)                            series

 1 VAXBI
 1
 UNIBUS

 * VMS Operating System is not distributed on RA60
 media._____________________________________________________________












                                 72

 

 

 VAX 8300  KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA    DMB32-
           (CI)     series           Plus             DMB32     DEBNI    LP
 VAX 8350  HSC                TM32   RV20             DHU11     DELUA    DR11-W
                    ESE-20    TS11   RV64             DMF32     (CI)     DWBUA
                    RA-       TUK50  TU80             DMZ32     CIBCA-   DRB32
 (Load              series           TU81-                      AA       LP11
 Media)                       TBK50  Plus             DMB32     CIBCA-
 Magtape                                       Synch- DSB32     BA       128
 RA60*                        (CI)   TK50                       CIBCI    MB Max
 TK50                         HSC    TA-                                 Mem
                                     series
 (BUSSES)

 1 VAXBI
 1
 UNIBUS

 * VMS Operating System is not distributed on RA60
 media.

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAX       KDB50    RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA    DMB32-
 85xx      (CI)     series           Plus             DMB32     DEBNI    LP
           HSC                       RV20             DHU11     DELUA    DR11-W
 (Load              ESE-20           RV64             DMF32     (CI)     DWBUA
 Media)             RA-       (CI)                    DMZ32     CIBCA-   DRB32
 Magtape            series    HSC    TA-                        AA       LP11
                                     series           DMB32     CIBCA-
 (BUSSES)                                      Synch- DSB32     BA       256
                                                                CIBCI    MB Max
 2 VAXBI                                                                 Mem
 1
 UNIBUS

 ________________________________________________________________________________

                                 73

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX 8600  UDA50    RA-       TS11   TS11      Asynch- DMF32    DEUNA    DMF32-
           RL211    series    KLESI  TU80             DZ11      DELUA    LP
 VAX       RX211    RL02             TU81             DZ32      (CI)     DR11-W
 8650      RUX50    RX02      TUK50  TU81-            DMZ32     CI780    DR780
           KLESI    RX50             Plus             DHU11              DW780
 (Load              RC25                                                 FP86-
 Media)             RM03      (CI)   RV20             DMF32              AA
 Magtape            RM05      HSC    TK50      Synch- DMR11              RH780
                    RM80             TA-
 (BUSSES)           RP05             series                              260
                    RP06      TM03   TE16                                MB Max
 7         (IntegralRP07      RM78   TU77                                Mem
 UNIBUS    IDTC                      TU78
 6 MASS-   (CI)     RA60      IDTC   TU81
 BUS       HSC      RA80
 2 SBI              RA81
                    RA82
                    ESE-20
                    RA-
 ___________________series__________________________________________











                                 74

 

 

 VAX       KD850    RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DHB32    DEBNA    DMB32-
 8700      (CI)     series           Plus             DMB32     DEBNI    LP
 VAX       HSC                       RV20             DMF32     DELUA    DR11-W
 8800               ESE-20           RV64             DMZ32     (CI)     DRB32
                    RA-       (CI)                              CIBCA-   DWBUA
 (Load              series    HSC    TA-              DMB32     AA       LP11
 Media)                              series    Synch- DSB32     CIBCA-
 Magtape                                                        BA       512
                                                                CIBCI    MB Max
 (BUSSES)                                                                Mem

 4 VAXBI
 2
 UNIBUS

 ________________________________________________________________________________

 

 VAX       KD850    RA-       KLESI  TU81-     Asynch- DMB32    DEBNA    DMB32-
 8810*     (CI)     series           Plus             DHB32     DEBNI    LP
 VAX       HSC                       RV20                       (CI)     DR11-W
 8820               ESE-20           RV64             DMB32     CIBCA-   DWBUA
 VAX                RA-                        Synch- DSB32     AA       DRB32
 8830               series                                      CIBCA-   LP11
 VAX                                                            BA
 8840                                                           CIBCI**  512
                                                                         MB Max
 (Load                                                                   Mem
 Media)
 Magtape

 (BUSSES)

 6 VAXBI
 1
 UNIBUS

 * The VAX 8810 can support a maximum of 4 VAXBIs.
 ** Supported only on the VAX 8810.
 ________________________________75______________________________________________

 

 

 ___________________________________________________________________
                                                                Options  Miscellaneous
 System          Disks            Tapes        Communication    (LAN
           ________________   _______________      (WAN)        /CI)

 __________CTRL_____DRIVE_____CTRL___DRIVE__________________________

 VAX 9000- KDM70    RA-       KLESI  RV20      Asynch- DMB32    DEMNA    DRB32-
 110/210   (6       series           RV64             (2        (4       M/-E
 VAX 9000- max)     ESE-20    (2     TA-              max)      max)     /-W/-C
 310/410   (CI)               max)   series    FDDI-  DHB32     (CI)     (2
           HSC      ESE-20           RF-              (2        CIXCD    max)
 (Load              RA-       KDM70  series           max)      (4       DWMBB-
 Media)             series           TF-              DEMFA     max)     HA/-CA
 Magtape                      KFMSA  series           (4        DEBNI    /-JA
 CDROM                                                max)      (3       (VAXBI
 via                          (2               Synch-           max)     EXP)
 InfoS-                       max)                    DMB32              KDB50
 erver                                                DSB32              (2
                                                                         max)
 (BUSSES)                                                                DSB32-
                                                                         M
 1 XMI                                                                   (2
 4 VAXBI                                                                 max)

                                                                         512
                                                                         MB Max
                                                                         Mem

 ________________________________________________________________________________
 NOTE: The VMS software that runs on the MicroVAX console subsystem is licensed
 for use only with standard console activities. No other use is intended or
 implied.___________________________________________________________





                                 76

 

 Appendix A

 This appendix describes some restrictions to the system configurations
 listed in the charts. See the VAX System and Options Catalog and the
 Network and Communications Buyers Guide for details of VAX hardware
 configurations.

 MicroVAX I/VAXstation I Systems

 The final version of VMS that supports these systems is VMS V5.1-1.

 MicroVAX II System

 The CX-series boards and DESQA controller can be used in a BA213 cab-
 inet only.

 MicroVAX 2000 and VAXstation 2000 Systems

 DECnet-VAX supports only one asynchronous data/modem RS-232C serial
 line up to 9600 baud on the integral 4 line asynchronous controller.

 VAXserver 3602 System

 The VAXserver 3602 is two VAXserver 3600 systems.

 VAX-11/725

 VMS V5.1 was the final version to support the VAX-11/725.

 VAX-11/730 System

 The VAX-11/730 system supports additional memory to a maximum of 5 MB
 for systems configured with R80/RL02 or dual RL02 disks. Other VAX-11
 /730 system configurations support a maximum of 3 MB of memory for the
 VAX-11/730 only.

 A maximum of two RL02 disk drives can be added to the dual RL02 and
 the R80/RL02 configuration for VAX-11/730 only.

 The VAX-11/730 system supports one UNIBUS magnetic tape subsystem.

 Refer to the Hardware System and Options Catalog for the different hard-
 ware options supported on these systems.

                                 77

 

 The VMS DECwindows environment is not supported on these systems.

 Appendix B

 This appendix describes Digital Equipment Corporation terminals, disks,
 tapes, controllers, communications options, and VAXcluster options.

 Terminals and Terminal Line Interfaces

 To prevent input from overflowing a buffer, terminals use the ASCII
 control characters DC1 and DC3 for synchronization as defined by Dig-
 ital's DEC STD 111, Revision A.

 The following table lists the terminals that are supported by VMS:
 

 VT52         VT100-        LA-series
              series

 VT300-       VT1000-       LQP02
 series       series

              VT200-
              series

 Terminals on Professional 350, Rainbow 100, and DECmate II systems em-
 ulate VT100 terminals.

 Only limited support is available for the VT52. The VT131, when run-
 ning an application, operates in block mode. When interacting with VMS
 and its associated utilities, the VT131 only operates in VT100 (or in-
 teractive) mode and not in block mode.

 Note: The VT1000 is a monochrome windowing terminal that supports stan-
 dard ANSI applications and "X" windows. The transport protocols sup-
 ported are LAT for VMS. The product supports 15 inch and 19 inch mon-
 itors.

 Disks

                                 78

 

 To support full VMS, a system disk of greater than 100 MB is recom-
 mended. To support full VMS and full VMS DECwindows, a system disk of
 greater than 115 MB is recommended. When a smaller disk is used, ad-
 ditional tailoring is required prior to installing some VMS and VMS
 DECwindows options. This does not include the dump file space. Refer
 to the Upgrade and Installation Procedures Manual for information on
 tailoring. For the disks that have been introduced since the last edi-
 tion of the VMS Operating System SPD, the minimum required version of
 VMS for these disks is listed.
 

 ESE-20   120 MB solid       (MSCP)
          state disk
          drive.

 ESE-52   120 MB solid       (MSCP) (V5.5-2)
          state disk
          drive.

 ESE-56   600 MB solid       (MSCP) (V5.5-2)
          state disk
          drive.

 ESE-58   960 MB solid       (MSCP) (V5.5-2)
          state disk
          drive.

 RA60     205 MB removable   (MSCP)
          disk drive.

 RA70     280 MB fixed       (MSCP)
          disk drive.

 RA71     700 MB fixed       (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
          disk drive.

 RA72     1 GB fixed disk    (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
          drive.

 RA80     128 MB fixed       (MSCP)
          disk drive.

 RA81     456 MB fixed       (MSCP)
          disk drive.

                                 79

 


 RA82     622 MB fixed       (MSCP)
          disk drive.

 RA90     1.2 GB fixed       (MSCP)
          disk drive.

 RA92     1.5 GB fixed       (MSCP)
          disk drive.

 RC25*    2 disks each 26    (Q-bus, UNIBUS)
          MB (1 fixed and
          1 removable)
          disk drive with
          shared spindle.

 RD32*    VAX 42 MB fixed
          disk drive for
          MicroVAX 2000
          and VAXstation
          2000.

 RD51*    10 MB fixed disk   (Q-bus)
          drive.

 RD52*    31 MB fixed disk   (Q-bus)
          drive.

 RD53*    71 MB fixed disk   (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
          drive.             MicroVAX 2000)

 RD54     159 MB fixed       (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
          disk drive.        MicroVAX 2000)

 RF30     150 MB fixed       (DSSI)
          disk drive.

 RF31F    200 MB fixed       (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
          disk drive.

 RF31-JA  381 MB shock-      (DSSI)
          mounted re-
          movable disk
          drive.

                                 80

 


 RF31-KA  381 MB fixed       (DSSI)
          disk drive.

 RF35     800 MB fixed       (DSSI) (V5.5)
          disk drive.

 RF71     400 MB fixed       (DSSI)
          disk drive.

 RF73     2 GB fixed disk    (DSSI) (V5.5)
          drive.

 RK06*    14 MB removable    (UNIBUS)
          disk drive.

 RK07*    28 MB removable    (UNIBUS)
          disk drive.

 RL02*    10 MB removable    (UNIBUS)
          disk drive.

 RM03+    67 MB removable    (MASSBUS)
          disk drive.

 RM05     256 MB removable   (MASSBUS)
          disk drive.

 RM80     124 MB fixed       (MASSBUS)
          disk drive.

 R80**    124 MB fixed
          disk drive for
          VAX-11/725 and
          VAX-11/730.

 RRD40*   600 MB read-only   (Q-bus and SCSI)
          optical disk
          drive.

 RRD42    600 MB read-only   (SCSI) (V5.4-2)
          optical disk
          drive.

                                 81

 


 RRD50*   600 MB read-only   (Q-bus)
          optical disk
          drive.

 RP05**   88 MB removable    (MASSBUS)
          disk drive.

 RP06     176 MB removable   (MASSBUS)
          disk drive.

 RP07     516 MB fixed       (MASSBUS)
          disk drive.
          (2.2 MB/sec
          transfer rate is
          supported if the
          RH780 is at REV
          B1 or greater
          for the VAX-11
          /780, VAX-11
          /785, VAX 8600
          and VAX 8650.)

 RX02*    512 KB diskette    (UNIBUS)
          drive. The RX02
          drive also
          writes using
          single-density
          RX01 diskettes.

 RX23     1.47 MB diskette   (SCSI)
          drive.

 RX26     2.8 MB diskette    (SCSI) (V5.5)
          drive.

 RX33*    1.2 MB diskette    (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
          drive. Requires    MicroVAX 2000)
          minimum RQDX3
          microcode of
          V3.0.

                                 82

 


 RX50*    400 KB diskette    (Q-bus, or Integral Controller on
          drive.             MicroVAX 2000)

 RV20*    2 GB Write         (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
          Once Read Many
          optical disk
          drive.

 RV64*    2 GB Write         (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
          Once Read Many
          optical disk
          sub-system.

 RZ22*    52 MB fixed disk   (SCSI)
          drive.

 RZ23**   104 MB fixed       (SCSI)
          disk drive.

 RZ23L    121 MB fixed       (SCSI) (V5.4-1)
          disk drive.

 RZ24     209 MB fixed       (SCSI)
          disk drive.

 RZ24L    240 MB fixed       (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
          disk drive.

 RZ25     425 MB fixed       (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
          disk drive.

 RZ26     1.0 GB fixed       (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
          disk drive.

 RZ35     852 MB fixed       (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
          disk drive.

 RZ55     332 MB fixed       (SCSI)
          disk drive.

 RZ56     665 MB fixed       (SCSI)
          disk drive.

 RZ57     1 GB fixed disk    (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
          drive.

                                 83

 


 RZ58     1.35 GB fixed      (SCSI) (V5.5)
          disk drive.

 

 *  Device cannot be used as a VMS system disk.

 ** Device cannot be used as a VMS system disk with VMS DECwindows
    environment.

 Disk Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise Integration
 Center (SEIC)

 

 RF30-RA  150 MB removable   (DSSI)
          disk drive.

 RF31-RA  381 MB removable   (DSSI)
          disk drive.

 RF71-RA  400 MB removable   (DSSI)
          disk drive.

 RF71-RA  1 GB removable     (DSSI)
          disk drive.

 RWZ01    594 MB optical     (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
          removable disk
          drive.

 Tapes

 

 TA78     STI TU78.          (MSCP)

 TA79     STI TU79.          (MSCP)

 TA81     STI TU81.          (MSCP)

                                 84

 


 TA90     1.2 GB, tape       (MSCP)
          cartridge sub-
          system. (5
          inch 200 MB
          cartridge)

 TA90E    1.2 GB tape        (MSCP)
          cartridge sub-
          system. Compacts
          data records
          automatically.

 TA91     High performance   (MSCP) (V5.4-2)
          tape drive.

 TE16     9-track magnetic   (MASSBUS)
          tape drive.

 TF70     290 MB TK70 tape   (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
          cartridge drive.

 TF85     2.6 GB streaming   (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
          tape cartridge
          drive.

 TF857    18.2 GB tape       (DSSI) (V5.4-2)
          cartridge
          loader.

 TK50     95 MB, 5 1/4       (Q-bus and SCSI)
          inch streaming
          tape cartridge
          drive.

 TK70     296 MB, 5 1/4      (Q-bus)
          inch streaming
          tape cartridge
          drive.

 TLZ04    4 GB, 3.5 inch,    (SCSI)
          4 mm tape drive.

                                 85

 


 TLZ06    4 GB, 3.5 inch,    (SCSI) (V5.5-1)
          4 mm DAT tape
          drive.

 TS11     9-track magnetic   (UNIBUS)
          tape drive.

 TU77     9-track magnetic   (MASSBUS)
          tape drive.

 TU78     9-track magnetic   (MASSBUS)
          tape drive.

 TU80     9-track magnetic   (UNIBUS)
          tape drive.

 TU81     9-track magnetic   (UNIBUS)
          tape drive.

 TU81-    Streaming 9-       (Q-bus, UNIBUS, VAXBI)
 Plus     track magnetic
          tape drive.

 TZ30     95 MB, 5 1/4       (SCSI)
          inch, half-
          height, tape
          drive.

 TZ85     2.6 GB, 5 1/4      (SCSI) (V5.4-3)
          inch tape drive.

 TZ86     6 GB, 5 1/4        (SCSI) (V5.5-2)
          inch, tape
          drive.

 TZK10    320/525 MB QIC     (SCSI) (V5.4-2)
          (quarter inch
          cartridge) tape
          drive.

 Tape Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise Integration
 Center (SEIC)

                                 86

 

 

 TLZ08    5.25 inch, 2 GB,   (SCSI)
          8 mm tape drive.

 TS05     9-track magnetic   (Q-bus)
          tape drive.

 TSZ05    1600 BPI, 9        (SCSI)
          track tape
          drive.

 TSZ07    1600/6250 BPI,     (SCSI) (V5.4-1)
          tape drive.

 Controllers
 

 DMB32-   VAXBI DMA parallel high speed line printer controller.
 LP

 DRB32    High speed general purpose parallel interface for VAXBI
          (systems).

 DMF32-   Synchronous/Asynchronous communication option with
 LP       printer port for use on UNIBUS based systems.

 HSC40    Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and TMSCP
          tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version of 6.5)

 HSC50    Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and TMSCP
          tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version of 4.1)

 HSC60    Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and TMSCP
          tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version of 6.5)

 HSC65    Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and TMSCP
          tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version of 7.0)

 HSC70    Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and TMSCP
          tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version of 6.5)

 HSC90    Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and TMSCP
          tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version of 6.5)

 HSC95    Hierarchical Storage Controller for MSCP disks and TMSCP
          tapes. (HSC Software must be a minimum Version of 7.0)

                                 87

 


 IDC      Integrated Disk Controller for VAX-11/725 and VAX-11/730
          systems.

 IDTC     Integral Disk and Tape Controller for VAX 8600 and VAX
          8650 systems.

 LPA11-K  Microprocessor controller for laboratory acquisition I/O
          devices, accommodating up to two AD11-Ks, one AA11-K,
          one KW11-K, two AM11-Ks, and five DR11-Ks. One LPA11-K
          controller is supported per UNIBUS and a maximum of two
          are supported per system.

 KDA50    Q-bus MSCP disk controller. The KDA50 disk controller
          supports up to four of the following drives: RA60, RA70,
          RA80, RA81, and RA82.

 KDB50    VAXBI MSCP disk controller. The KDB50 disk controller
          supports up to four of the following drives: RA60, RA80,
          RA81, and RA82.

 KDM70    The KDM70 is an intelligent MSCP/TMSCP mass-storage con-
          troller that supports RA Series Disks and Storage Arrays,
          TA Series Tape, and ESE20.

 KFQSA    Q-bus DSSI bus storage adapter. This adapter allows up
          to seven DSSI storage devices to attach to the DSSI bus.
          (Six DSSI storage devices are allowed in a Dual-Host
          Configuration.)

 KLESI    Q-bus, UNIBUS, and VAXBI tape controller for the TU81-
          Plus, RV20, or RC25.

 KRQ50    Q-bus controller for the RRD40/RRD50 compact disk reader.

 KZQSA    Q-bus to SCSI bus adapter. This adapter allows up to 7
          SCSI storage devices to attach to the SCSI bus.

 LP11     UNIBUS parallel high-speed line printer controller for
          the LPxx printers.

 LPV11    Q-bus parallel high-speed line printer controller.

 RK711    UNIBUS disk controller for RK07 disk drives.

 RL211    UNIBUS disk controller for the RL02 disk drive.

                                 88

 


 RQDXx    Q-bus disk controller for MicroVAX and VAXstation sys-
          tems. There is an RQDX1, RQDX2, and an RQDX3 controller.
          The RQDXx disk controller supports as many as four disk
          units, with each RX50 diskette drive counting as two
          units. Due to controller limitations, the system supports
          a maximum of 4 devices; the number of RD/RX devices the
          system supports depends on the enclosure. The RQDX3 disk
          controller is required for the RD54 and the RX33 drives.

 RX211    UNIBUS diskette controller for two RX02 drives. One RX211
          diskette controller is supported per system.

 RUX50    UNIBUS diskette controller for RX50 drives. One RUX50
          diskette controller is supported per system.

 TM03     MASSBUS tape controller for the TE16 and TU77 magnetic
          tape drives.

 TM32     BI-bus 9 track tape controller only with large record
          support.

 TM78     MASSBUS tape controller for the TU78 magnetic tape drive.

 TQK50    Q-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape drive.

 TQK70    Q-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape drive.

 TS11     UNIBUS tape controller for the TS11 magnetic tape drive.

 TBK50    BI-bus tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape drive.

 TBK70    BI-bus tape controller for the TK70 cartridge tape drive.

 TUK50    UNIBUS tape controller for the TK50 cartridge tape drive.
          One TUK50 tape controller is supported per system.

 UDA50    UNIBUS MSCP disk controller. The UDA50 controller must
          have a minimum microcode version of REV 3. The UDA50
          controller supports up to 4 of the following disk drives:
          RA60, RA80, RA81, and RA82.

 Controller Options Supported by Digital's Services Enterprise Inte-
 gration Center (SEIC)

                                 89

 

 

 TSV05    Q-bus tape controller for the TS05 magnetic tape drive.

 TSU05    Unibus tape controller for the TS05 magnetic tape drive.

 MASSBUS Adapter/Tape Subsystems

 These include a MASSBUS adapter, a tape formatter, and a transport (a
 TU77 for the TxU77 subsystems, a TE16 transport for TxE16 subsystem,
 or a TU78 for the TEU78 subsystem).

 A maximum of three additional TU77 magnetic tape transports can be added
 to a TxU77 subsystem and a maximum of seven additional TE16 magnetic
 tape transports can be added to a TxE16 subsystem. Different magnetic
 tape transports cannot be mixed on the same tape subsystem.

 With disks and magnetic tape transports mixed on the same MASSBUS, the
 following rules apply:

 o  Disks can be added to a magnetic tape subsystem to a maximum of seven
    additional disks per tape subsystem.

 o  Tapes cannot be added to a disk subsystem.

 Asynchronous Terminal Controllers

 

 CXA16    16 line serial terminal multiplexer (DEC-423), maximum
          baud rate supported: 38400. (No modem control) (Q-bus)

 CXB16    16 line serial terminal multiplexer (RS422), maximum baud
          rate supported: 38400. (No modem control) (Q-bus)

 CXY08    8 line serial terminal multiplexer (RS232), maximum baud
          rate supported: 19200. (Full modem control) (Q-bus)

 DHB32    16 line asynchronous terminal controller for VAXBI, maxi-
          mum baud rate supported: 19200. (VAXBI)

 DHF11    32 line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423),
          maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (No modem control)
          (Q-bus)

                                 90

 


 DHT32    8 line asynchronous terminal controller (DEC 423). (No
          modem control) (MicroVAX 2000)

 DHQ11    8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
          or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 19200. (Full
          modem control) (Q-bus)

 DHU11    16 line asynchronous terminal controller (RS-232-C),
          maximum baud rates supported: VMS 19200, DECnet-VAX 9600.
          (Full modem control) (UNIBUS)

 DHV11    8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
          or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: VMS 19200,
          DECnet-VAX 9600. (Full modem control) (Q-bus)

 DMB32    8 line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum baud
          rates supported: VMS 19200, DECnet-VAX 9600. (Full modem
          control) (VAXBI)

 DMF32    8 line asynchronous terminal controller, maximum baud
          rates supported: VMS supports 19200, DECnet-VAX supports
          9600. (Full modem control on first 2 lines) (UNIBUS)

 DMZ32    24 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
          or RS-423-A), maximum baud rates supported: VMS 19200,
          DECnet-VAX 9600. (Modem support dependent on configura-
          tion) (UNIBUS)

 DSH32    1 line synchronous (full modem control) and 8 line asyn-
          chronous (no modem control) communications controller for
          the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423 devices are supported. Maximum
          baud rates supported: VMS 19.2 KBPS (kilobits/second).

 DZ11     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C or
          RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600. (Partial
          modem control) (UNIBUS)

 DZ32     8 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C or
          RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: 9600. (Partial
          modem control) (UNIBUS)

                                 91

 


 DZQ11    4 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
          or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: VMS supports
          19200, DECnet-VAX supports 9600. (Partial modem control)
          (Q-bus)

 DZV11    4 line asynchronous terminal controller (EIA RS-232-C
          or RS-423-A), maximum baud rate supported: VMS supports
          19200, DECnet-VAX supports 9600. (Partial modem control)
          (Q-bus)

 Integral asynchronous serial lines for the MicroVAX 2000 and the VAXs-
 tation 2000.

 On the MicroVAX 2000, one line is the modem/data line and three are
 data-only lines. On the VAXstation 2000, the lines support keyboard,
 mouse, modem connection, and printer or plotter. DECnet-VAX supports
 all four asynchronous data/modem RS-232C serial lines up to 9.6 KBPS
 on the integral 4 line asynchronous controller for MicroVAX 2000.

 Synchronous Controllers

 The VAX Wide Area Network Device Drivers software product contains the
 synchronous device drivers and is required when using synchronous com-
 munication options. Refer to SPD 29.64.xx for more information.
 

 DMB32    Point-to-point synchronous interface. (VAXBI)

 DMC11    High-speed local point-to-point synchronous interface;
          retired device, no longer offered as an option. (UNIBUS)

 DMF32    Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
          (UNIBUS)

 DMP11    Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface;
          (UNIBUS) retired device, no longer offered as an option.

 DMR11    Remote point-to-point synchronous interface; (UNIBUS)
          replaces DMC11.

                                 92

 


 DMV11    Point-to-point or multipoint synchronous interface.
          (Q-bus)

 DPV11    Synchronous, 1 line, half or full-duplex point-to-point
          communication interface supporting DDCMP, HDLC, SDLC, or
          BISYNC protocols.

 DSB32    Two line, multiple protocol, synchronous adapter. (VAXBI)

 DSH32    1 line synchronous (full modem control) and 8 line asyn-
          chronous (no modem control) communications controller for
          the MicroVAX 2000. DEC423 devices are supported. Maximum
          baud rates supported: VMS 19.2 KBPS (kilobits/second).
          9.6 KBPS for MicroVAX 2000, etc.

 DST32    Synchronous single line support for DDCMP up to 9.6 KBPS,
          full duplex for MicroVAX 2000 systems. Concurrent use
          with the DHT32 is not supported.

 DSV11    Synchronous, 2 line, half or full-duplex point-to-point
          communication interface supporting DDCMP (1 or 2 lines up
          to 64 KBPS).

 DSF32    DEC WANcontroller 620 - Two line synchronous communi-
          cations controller designed specifically for the VAXft
          3000 processors, supporting DDCMP. DDCMP is supported at
          speeds up to 64 KBPS per line for a two-line operation.

 LAN Options
 

 DEUNA    Ethernet to UNIBUS controller.

 DELUA    Ethernet to UNIBUS controller. The minimum revision level
          required is F1.

 DEBNA    Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

 DEBNI    Ethernet to VAXBI communication controller.

 DEMFA    The DEMFA is a high performance network adapter that con-
          nects XMI systems to both Ethernet and IEEE FDDI (Fiber
          Distributed Data Interconnect) local area networks.

                                 93

 


 DEMNA    The DEMNA is a high performance network adapter that
          connects XMI systems to both the Ethernet and IEEE 802.3
          local area networks.

 DESVA    Ethernet controller interface.

 DEQNA    Ethernet controller to Q-bus. The minimum revision level
          required is K3. All systems utilizing a DEQNA must op-
          erate with software data checking enabled. Since AUTOGEN
          will automatically set the correct parameter, no system
          management intervention is required. Not supported by
          VAXcluster software. Not supported for any interfaces
          except for access using QIO or ALTSTART interfaces.

 DELQA    Ethernet controller to Q-bus. This is the replacement for
          DEQNA. The minimum revision level required is C3.

 DESQA    Ethernet controller to Q-bus for S-BOX configurations.

 KFE52    DSSI/Ethernet Adapter for the VAXft 3000. Minimum of two
          adapters per system providing redundant connection to the
          Ethernet and the DSSI buses.

 CI Options

 VAXcluster Software may support multiple CI adapters per system. Re-
 fer to the VAXcluster Software Product Description (SPD 29.78.xx) for
 the supported configurations.
 

 CI750    CI Adapter for VAX-11/750 systems. (Minimum microcode
          version REV 8.7 is required.)

 CI780    CI Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785, VAX 8600, and
          VAX 8650 systems. (Minimum microcode version REV 8.7 is
          required.)

 CIBCI    CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode version
          REV 8.7 is required.)

 CIBCA-   Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode
 AA       version REV 7.5 is required.)

                                 94

 


 CIBCA-   Native CI Adapter for VAXBI systems. (Minimum microcode
 BA       version REV 5.2 is required.)

 CIXCD-   Native CI Adapter for VAX 9xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
 AA       microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

 CIXCD-   Native CI Adapter for VAX 6xxx XMI systems. (Minimum
 AB       microcode version REV 1.0 is required.)

 Miscellaneous
 

 CR11     Card reader. One CR11 card reader is supported per sys-
          tem. (UNIBUS)

 DRV11-   General purpose DMA interface. (Q-bus)
 WA

 DR11-W   General purpose high-speed DMA interface - one DR11-W
          interface supported per UNIBUS.

 DR750    High performance general purpose interface for the VAX-11
          /750. One DR750 interface is supported per system. This
          device may not be used in conjunction with the CI750.

 DR780    High performance general purpose interface for the VAX-11
          /780 and VAX-11/785. One DR780 interface is supported per
          system. On the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650 as many as four per
          system are permitted provided that the M8297-YA is used.

 DSSI     Digital Storage Systems Interconnect.

 DWBUA    XMI to UNIBUS adapter.

 DWMBA    XMI to BI adapter; also the adapter used to connect the
          XMI to VAX expander cabinet.

 DWMVA    XMI to VME adapter.

 DW750    UNIBUS Adapter for second UNIBUS for the VAX-11/750 sys-
          tem.

 DW780    UNIBUS Adapter for VAX-11/780, VAX 8600 and VAX 8650.

 FP730    Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/730 system.

 FP750    Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/750 system.

                                 95

 


 FP780    Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/780 system.

 FP785    Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX-11/785 system.

 FP86-AA  Floating Point Accelerator for the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650
          systems.

 FV64A    Vector Processing option for the VAX 6000-400.

 H7112    Memory battery back-up for VAX-11/750, VAX-11/780, VAX-11
          /785, VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems. This is required
          for power-fail/recovery.

 KE780    G and H floating point microcode for the VAX-11/780 sys-
          tem.

 KU780    User-writeable control store for the VAX-11/780 system.

 MA780    Multiport shared memory. A multiple version VMS 4.7 and
          VMS 5.x-n VAXcluster system is not supported if the sys-
          tem is configured with MA780 memory.

 RH750    MASSBUS adapter for the VAX-11/750 system.

 RH780    MASSBUS controller for the VAX-11/780, VAX-11/785,
          VAX 8600, and VAX 8650 systems.

 SBI      System Backplane Interconnect for the VAX-11/780, VAX-11
          /785, and I/O BUS for the VAX 8600 and VAX 8650 systems.

 SCSI     Small Computer System Interconnect.

 VS40X    4-plane graphics coprocessor.

 WS01X    VAXstation 3100 SPX Graphics option.

 InfoServerInfoServer 100 is a stand-alone Ethernet-based virtual
 100      disk server. The server has locally attached SCSI re-
          movable CDROMs and SCSI disk storage. VMS V5.5 supports
          virtual disk reads. For other features, please refer to
          the InfoServer 100/150 Software Product Descriptions.

 

 [R]   PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.

 [TM] Motif and OSF/Motif are trademarks of Open Software Founda-
     tion, Inc.

                                 96

 


 [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, ACMS, BI, CI, CX, DBMS, DDCMP, DECdtm,
     DECintact, DECmate, DECnet, DECscheduler, DECtp, DECterm,
     DECwindows, DELUA, DEUNA, DEQNA, Digital, DRB32, EDT,
     HSC, HSC40, HSC50, HSC70, KDA, KDM, KLESI, KRQ50, LAT,
     LQP02, MASSBUS, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, RA, RC, Rdb/VMS, RF,
     RK, RL, RM, RQDX2, RQDX3, RRD50, RUX50, RX, TA, TE, TEU78,
     TK, TM, TS, TQK50, TS05, TU, UDA, ULTRIX, UNIBUS, VAX,
     VAX Ada, VAX BASIC, VAX C, VAX COBOL, VAX DIBOL, VAX FORTRAN,
     VAX MACRO, VAX Pascal, VAX SCAN, VAXBI, VAXcluster, VAXft,
     VAXstation, VAXserver, VMS, VR150, VR160, VT, VT100 and VT1000
     are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.




























                                 97

 

 Appendix C

 Third Party Licensing Section

 Adobe Systems Incorporated, License Terms and Agreement

 1. Licensor grants to Licensee a nonexclusive sublicense, subject to
    other provisions hereof (a) to use the PostScript Software ("Soft-
    ware") solely for Licensee's own internal business purposes on a
    Single Licensed System; (b) to use the digitally-encoded machine-
    readable outline and bitmap programs ("Font Programs") provided by
    Licensor in a special encrypted format ("Coded Font Programs") and
    identified herewith to reproduce and display designs, styles, weights,
    and versions of letters, numerals, characters and symbols ("Type-
    faces" and "Screen Typefaces") solely for Licensee's own custom-
    ary business or personal purposes on the screen of the Licensed Sys-
    tem; and (c) to use the trademarks used by Licensor to identify the
    Coded Font Programs and Typefaces reproduced therefrom ("Trademarks").
    Licensee may assign its rights under this Agreement to a licensee
    of all of Licensee's right, title and interest to such Software and
    Coded Font Programs provided the licensee agrees to be bound by all
    of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 2. Licensee acknowledges that the Software, Coded Font Programs, Type-
    faces and Trademarks are proprietary to Licensor and its suppli-
    ers. Licensee agrees to hold the Software and Coded Font Programs
    in confidence, disclosing the Software and Coded Font Programs only
    to authorized employees having a need to use the Software and Coded
    Font Programs as permitted by this Agreement and to take all rea-
    sonable precautions to prevent disclosure to other parties.

 3. Licensee will not make or have made, or permit to be made, any copies
    of the Software or Coded Font Programs or portions thereof, except
    as necessary for its use with a single Licensed System hereunder.
    Licensee agrees that any such copies shall contain the same pro-
    prietary notices which appear on or in the Software or the Coded
    Font Programs.



                                 98

 

 4. Except as stated above, this Agreement does not grant Licensee any
    rights to patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trade names, trade-
    marks (whether registered or unregistered), or any other rights,
    franchises, or licenses in respect of the Software, Coded Font Pro-
    grams, Typefaces, or Trademarks. Licensee will not adapt or use any
    trademark or trade name which is likely to be similar to or con-
    fusing with that of Licensor or any of its suppliers or take any
    other action which impairs or reduces the trademark rights of Li-
    censor or its suppliers. Any use of the Trademarks must identify
    the applicable ``Trademark Owner'' set forth in Schedule A hereto
    as the owner of such Trademarks. At the reasonable request of Li-
    censor, Licensee must supply samples of any Typeface identified by
    a Trademark.

 5. Licensee agrees that it will not attempt to alter, disassemble, de-
    crypt or reverse compile the Software or Coded Font Programs.

 6. Licensee acknowledges that the laws and regulations of the United
    States restrict the export and re-export of commodities and tech-
    nical data of United States origin, including the Software or Coded
    Font Programs. Licensee agrees that it will not export or re-export
    the Software or Coded Font Programs in any form without the appro-
    priate United States and foreign government licenses. Licensee agrees
    that its obligations pursuant to this section shall survive and con-
    tinue after any termination or expiration of rights under this Agree-
    ment.

 7. The software licensed hereunder is restricted to use to generate
    screen displays on a single Licensed System having a screen res-
    olution of less than 150 dots/per/inch. Licensee agrees not to make
    use of the software, directly or indirectly, to print bitmap im-
    ages with print resolutions of 150 dots/per/inch or greater, or to
    generate Fonts or Typefaces for use other than with the Licensed
    System. Any failure of Licensee to comply with this provision is
    a material breach of this End User Agreement.





                                 99
