 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:  DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX,            SPD 34.07.02
                Version 2.1

 DESCRIPTION

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX is the OpenVMS VAX operating system im-
 plementation of a generic software message queuing bus that provides
 easy-to-use, efficient task-to-task communications among processes us-
 ing DECmessageQ on OpenVMS, ULTRIX/RISC, ULTRIX/VAX, MS-DOS(R), OS/2(R),
 Macintosh(R), HP(R)-UX, 88open(R), and Sun(R).

 A common call interface allows messages to be delivered via high-speed
 global sections for some intra-CPU applications, or via DECnet-VAX and
 Transmission Control Protocol/INTERNET Protocol (TCP/IP) for inter-
 CPU applications. Applications can be designed so client applications
 can be redeployed easily anywhere within the DECmessageQ network con-
 figuration, whether in a standalone node, a Local Area Network (LAN),
 or a Wide Area Network (WAN).

 The DECmessageQ communication implementation is designed for ease-of-
 use, expandability, and efficiency.

 Features

 o  High speed local message delivery using Global Sections

 o  Remote message delivery via DECnet for MS-DOS, Macintosh, OS/2, and
    OpenVMS connections; and via TCP/IP for UNIX(R)/ULTRIX and OpenVMS
    connections.

 o  Fully asynchronous and synchronous receipt of messages

 o  Message sizes up to 32,000 bytes

 o  Priority queuing of messages

 o  Message recovery using Message Recovery Services (MRS)

                               DIGITAL                     June 1993

                                                         AE-PF5FC-TE

 

 o  Message broadcasting using Selective Broadcast Services (SBS)

 o  Selective reception of messages according to certain fields within
    the DECmessageQ header and within the data portion of the message

 o  Shared input queues using Multi-Reader Queues (MRQ)

 o  Use of intra-CPU naming through high-speed global sections, and inter-
    CPU naming through VAX Distributed Name Service

 o  Message simulation facility for use in application testing

 o  Set of message delivery options

 o  Selectable tracing of messages and calls to DECmessageQ

 o  A maximum of 999 queues per DECmessageQ Group

 o  A maximum of 32,000 DECmessageQ Groups

 o  Integration of OpenVMS timers

 o  Support for languages adhering to the VAX Common Language standard

 o  Utilities for monitoring the network configuration and flow of mes-
    sages

 o  Dynamic addition of message queues and CPUs to the communication
    network

 o  Message interface for retrieving DECmessageQ configuration infor-
    mation on-line

 o  Portable call interface

 o  Connectivity to DECmessageQ implementations on OpenVMS, ULTRIX/RISC,
    ULTRIX/VAX, OS/2, MS-DOS, Macintosh, HP-UX, 88open, and Sun

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX can also be used as an integration tool
 to merge many external events with the Message Queuing Bus. In addi-
 tion to integrating messages from local processes and remote processes,
 DECmessageQ also provides facilities for the integration of other events
 such as:

 o  Timer settings

                                  2

 

 o  Simulated messages

 o  LU6.2 conversations

 o  Other external events such as special hardware I/O

 DECmessageQ Queues

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX provides three types of queues. A queue
 is a memory storage location for DECmessageQ messages. Any process can
 insert a message into any queue. These queues are accessed directly
 by DECmessageQ procedures. These procedures are called by user-written
 applications. DECmessageQ queue types are:

 o  Primary Queue (PQ) - Each process that attaches to the message queu-
    ing bus is assigned a Primary Queue. This queue is used to receive
    messages from processes using DECmessageQ.

 o  Secondary Queue (SQ) - Any process may attach to one or more sec-
    ondary queues. These queues can also be used to receive messages.
    The order in which queues are scanned for messages is defined by
    the DECmessageQ selection rules.

 o  Multi-Reader Queue (MRQ) - A Multi-Reader Queue is a single shared
    queue that can be shared by multiple processes.

 Message Recovery Services (MRS)

 Message Recovery Services for the DECmessageQ Message Queuing Bus ex-
 tend data recovery to the level of pending messages. Using Message Re-
 covery Services, the sender is relieved of the responsibility of track-
 ing the progress of a message through its next level of processing.
 This functionality can be used both at the client and server sides of
 the application.

 Message Recovery Services increase the robustness of DECmessageQ by
 providing applications with the ability to recover from message de-
 livery failures due to:

 o  Application program abort

 o  Communication line failure

                                  3

 

 o  System crash

 Some of the applications requirements addressed by MRS are:

 o  Sender wishes to insure delivery of messages when the receiving pro-
    cess is available but does not wish to monitor the delivery.

 o  Sender wishes to know that a message is recoverable to avoid the
    cost of reconstructing it but does not care when it is finally de-
    livered.

 o  Receiver wishes to maintain a journal of all messages received by
    it for audit trail or reprocessing.

 Message Recovery Services are primarily implemented by an MRS server,
 a non-privileged program attached to the DECmessageQ Message Bus. MRS
 actions are invoked by standard DECmessageQ send and receive message
 calls.

 MRS is oriented toward messages, not processes; not all messages sent
 from or directed to a particular process need to be processed by MRS.
 This allows applications to selectively incur the additional process-
 ing imposed by MRS for just those messages that are not easily recov-
 ered. Message recovery characteristics are set by the sending process.

 Selective Broadcast Services (SBS)

 There are two important application requirements handled by this ser-
 vice. The first requirement is the ability to send a message to many
 targets without going through multiple application DECmessageQ send
 message requests. The second requirement is the ability to generate
 broadcast messages without the originator knowing the quantity or lo-
 cation of the target process(es).

 Selective Broadcast Services provide a conceptual broadcast stream of
 data. In this broadcast stream any process can insert a message. Any
 process can select messages from this broadcast stream for delivery.
 Messages may be selected using a set of rules that provide relational
 comparisons against DECmessageQ header information or user's message
 data information. The Selective Broadcast Services operate in a sin-
 gle server environment or between cooperating DECmessageQ servers. When

                                  4

 

 the SBS is operating between nodes, it can operate using DECnet or TCP
 /IP services, or using direct Ethernet operations. In the direct Eth-
 ernet operations, the SBS will optimize message traffic by using Eth-
 ernet's multi-casting capabilities.

 Delivery Options

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX provides the following set of delivery op-
 tions:

 o  Datagram - A non-recoverable attempt is made to deliver a message.
    If the message cannot be delivered to a target, then, an error is
    logged.

 o  Wait for enqueue - The sending process will block until the mes-
    sage is written to the target queue. A return status will indicate
    if the message successfully enqueued to the queue.

 o  Blocking and non-blocking message Store-and-Forward - The sending
    process will send messages stored in a disk file locally, before
    they are sent over any communication link(s).

 o  Blocking and non-blocking message disk queuing - The sending pro-
    cess will send messages that will be delivered to the target's disk
    queue.

 DECmessageQ Scripts Facility

 The DECmessageQ scripts facility provides a general capability to per-
 form message capture, simulation, and replay.

 o  Capture - DECmessageQ scripts can be used to capture messages sent
    or received from a process. These messages can be displayed on the
    output device or collected in a disk file. The messages are dis-
    played in an ASCII file using the DECmessageQ scripts syntax.

 o  Simulation - A disk file containing DECmessageQ scripts commands
    can be used to simulate message traffic to a process. The commands
    use the DECmessageQ scripts syntax. The process will receive these
    messages after any DECmessageQ queue is scanned for receivable mes-
    sages.

                                  5

 

 o  Replay - A replay is the simulation of messages previously captured.

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services (License Option)

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX systems allows user pro-
 grams attached to a DECmessageQ Message Queuing Bus to request, ac-
 cept, and conduct APPC (Advanced Program-to-Program Communications)
 conversations with programs running under CICS/VS, IMS/VS, and other
 IBM(R) environments over SNA LU6.2 sessions.

 Note: Refer to the DECnet/SNA VMS APPC/LU6.2 Software Product Descrip-
 tion (SPD 26.88.xx) for currently supported environments.

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services allows users unfamiliar with SNA communi-
 cations to develop, quickly and easily, applications that operate with
 IBM-based APPC applications. Users are insulated from the details of
 both SNA and APPC. DECmessageQ provides additional insulation between
 the two environments by translating transaction program names known
 to DECmessageQ user programs to names known to the IBM system(s) and
 vice versa.

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX consists of:

 o  An LU6.2 Server image ("Port Server") that provides connection man-
    agement facilities, isolating the end user from details of SNA-APPC
    communications

 o  A library of predefined DECmessageQ message structures for ease of
    program development

 o  Utilities for managing the LU6.2 Server

 o  Tools for developing user-written LU6.2 Servers

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services Limits

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX has the following limits:



                                  6

 

 
 Maximum user message  31,982 bytes
 size:

 Maximum number of     256 per Port Server
 active LUs:

 Maximum number of     512 per DECmessageQ LU6.2 Server (user-
 remote                written servers: unlimited)
 Transaction Pro-
 grams:

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services Utilities

 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX includes a management util-
 ity that allows a suitably privileged user to start, stop, and con-
 figure DECmessageQ LU6.2 servers and observe their activity (through
 an event monitoring facility).

 Users can develop specialized LU6.2 servers by using the DECmessageQ
 LU6.2 Server tool kit. The tool kit consists of a DECmessageQ for Open-
 VMS VAX User Callback (a "user callback" is a special User Exit mod-
 ule) and 21 predefined DECmessageQ message structures.

 The LU6.2 Server tool kit gives the user a finer degree of control over
 the APPC environment than the standard DECmessageQ LU6.2 Server. Func-
 tions supported via the tool kit are:

 o  DEFINE_LU

 o  DEFINE_TP

 o  DELETE_LU

 o  ALLOCATE_CONVERSATION

 o  DEALLOCATE_CONVERSATION

 o  REQUEST_CONFIRMATION

 o  ISSUE_CONFIRMATION

 o  ISSUE_ERROR

 o  REQUEST_TO_SEND

                                  7

 

 o  SEND

 o  RECEIVE

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processors and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 34.07.02-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No Decwindows Interface):

 o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System

 o  VMS/ULTRIX Connection

    or
    DEC TCP/IP Services for OpenVMS VAX

    or
    TGV MultiNet(R)

 o  DECnet/SNA VMS APPC/LU6.2 Programming Interface (for LU6.2 Services
    option only)

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 34.07.02-x) for availabil-
 ity and required versions of prerequisite/optional software.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 Development Option

 The DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Development Option includes the base
 message queuing software, language compiler binding libraries, and con-
 figuration definition utilities.

 Run-Time Only Option


                                  8

 

 The Run-Time Only Option provides all the facilities of the develop-
 ment version of DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX except the language com-
 piler binding libraries and the configuration definition utilities.
 The purpose of the Run-Time Only version is to support the execution
 of previously developed applications on a target machine. Program de-
 velopment is not supported under the Run-Time Only Option.

 LU6.2 Services Option

 The DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX LU6.2 Services option supports con-
 versations with programs running under CICS/VS, IMS/VS, and other IBM
 environments over SNA LU6.2 sessions.

 Software Licenses

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Development: QL-GKPA9-J*
 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Run-Time Only: QL-GHVA9-J*
 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX: QL-GKQA9-J*

 Software Media

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Development: QA-GKPAA-H*
 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Run-Time Only: QA-GKPAA-H*
 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX: QA-GKPAA-H*

 Software Documentation

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Development: QA-GKPAA-GZ
 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Run-Time Only: QA-GKPAA-GZ
 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX: QA-GKPAA-GZ

 Software Product Services

 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Development: QT-GKPA*-**
 DECmessageQ for OpenVMS VAX Run-Time Only: QT-GHVA*-**
 DECmessageQ LU6.2 Services for OpenVMS VAX: QT-GKQA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

                                  9

 

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the OpenVMS License Management Facil-
 ity.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx)
 or the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Operat-
 ing System documentation set.

 For more information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, con-
 tact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 
 (R)  88open is a registered trademark of 88open Consortium, Ltd.

 (R)  IBM and OS/2 are registered trademarks of International Busi-
    ness Machines Corporation.

                                 10

 


 (R)  HP is a registered trademark of Hewlett-Packard Corporation.

 (R)  Macintosh is a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc.

 (R)  MS and MS-DOS are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corpora-
    tion.

 (R)  MultiNet is a registered trademark of TGV, Inc.

 (R)  Sun is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystem Corporation.

 (R)  UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories,
    Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, CI, DECmessageQ, DECwindows, DECnet, Digi-
    tal, MicroVAX, OpenVMS, TK, ULTRIX, VAX, VAXcluster, VAXft,
    VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are trademarks of Digital Equip-
    ment Corporation.





















                                 11
