 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  VAX Notes, Version 2.2        SPD 27.06.06

           DESCRIPTION

           VAX Notes is a computer conferencing software product de-
           signed to provide users with the capability of creating and
           accessing enterprise-wide, on-line conferences or meetings.
           Computer conferencing is a proven, computer supported, elec-
           tronic messaging technology which lets users participate in
           open discussions with people in different locations and at
           different times. VAX Notes helps save travel time and money
           because participants can join in a discussion from their own
           desks at a time of their own choice.

           VAX Notes can be used for a variety of applications such as
           an electronic bulletin board, collaborative document author-
           ing and review, and internal classes or seminars. One ma-
           jor advantage of VAX Notes is that the conference maintains
           a detailed record of the proceedings of a discussion. These
           records can later be searched by a variety of criteria, such
           as name of participant, subject or keyword. VAX Notes elim-
           inates reinvention of the wheel by providing a mechanism for
           sharing expert knowledge across the enterprise. In general,
           VAX Notes enhances the communication flow across the cor-
           porate hierarchy.

           VAX Notes is implemented as a client/server application. The
           VAX Notes clients can run in one of two ways. They can be
           on either the DECwindows platform with easy access to func-
           tions through direct manipulation with a mouse in a window,
           or the character cell terminal using a TPU interface. VAX Notes
           servers run on VMS systems in either a standalone or net-
           worked environment.

                                    DIGITAL           September 1991

                                                         AE-GH97J-TE

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           Features

           Distributed Access

           VAX Notes has been designed for optimal multi-node access
           in a DECnet network, using server technology to achieve rapid
           response - even from distant nodes. VAX Notes conferences
           can exist on any VAX Notes server node in a DECnet network
           and can be accessed from any VAX Notes client node in a DEC-
           net network, thus offering true distributed processing ca-
           pability. Users on remote nodes need not have an account on
           the node where the conference is located in order to par-
           ticipate in a discussion. VAX Notes may also be used on any
           single node VMS configuration. Conferences may exist on any
           node where the full-function server or the user-based op-
           tion is installed in either standalone or networked envi-
           ronments.

           Moderator Support

           A moderator is a person responsible for managing a confer-
           ence. VAX Notes allows both public and private conferences.
           For private conferences, the moderator can restrict access
           to a specific group of participants by specifying name and
           network location. Public conferences have no restrictions
           on who may participate. The moderator may send announcements
           of new conferences to participants, and has the sole abil-
           ity to delete notes entered by other participants. Moder-
           ators may also create special notices which are displayed
           for all participants each time the conference is accessed.

           Ease-of-Use

           VAX Notes is designed with the inexperienced user in mind.
           All functions can be accessed by easy-to-use commands, sup-
           ported with on-line, context-sensitive help. Documentation
           is designed to familiarize new users with VAX Notes quickly
           and easily.

           Choice of Editor Interfaces

                                       2

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           The character-cell interface to VAX Notes provides three sep-
           arate screen-oriented user interfaces for editing, allow-
           ing users to specify use of EVE (an extensible interface),
           EDT-style keypad interface, or WPS-style GOLD KEY keypad in-
           terface on ANSI-compatible terminals.

           A line mode editor also is included in VAX Notes for use on
           non-ANSI terminal devices.

           Users of the DECwindows interface can enter notes which con-
           tain graphics and text by including entire compound docu-
           ments based on DDIF file format.





























                                       3

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           Topics and Replies

           The structure of a VAX Notes conference is simple - a topic
           followed by replies to that topic - so there is no diffi-
           cult hierarchy to navigate. A conference may have more than
           50,000 topics, and each topic may have a similar number of
           replies. Directory listings show all topics by author, ti-
           tle, date, and the number of replies posted to each topic.
           All notes can be read either sequentially or at random. Also,
           users may read only those notes which they have not yet seen.
           VAX Notes allows the user to search for various topics and
           replies using the SEARCH, DIRECTORY, and KEYWORD commands.

           The DECwindows interface to VAX Notes allows users to open
           multiple read windows per conference, as well as have mul-
           tiple conferences open at one time.

           Notebook

           The Notebook is a user's personal list of conferences of in-
           terest. Users may easily add or delete conferences from their
           Notebook. The Notebook allows users to define personal names
           for Conferences and, in a distributed environment, allows
           remote conferences to be accessed without DECnet node spec-
           ifications. When a conference is accessed, the Notebook can
           optionally show whether or not new entries have been made
           since the last time the user accessed the conference. The
           Notebook also maintains a profile of user preferences, in-
           cluding personal name, editor choice, and default printer
           specification.

           Markers

           Markers are user-defined names pointing to special entries
           in a conference. Markers can be used whenever a user needs
           to have a special reminder of things to do, or to recall notes
           that are frequently referenced.

           Keywords


                                       4

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           Keywords allow the user to group notes that are concerned
           with a particular subject or do not have other attributes
           (such as title, author, or time of entry) in common. Key-
           words are useful for grouping notes that may not have the
           keyword in the note text or title, but that do address the
           subject the keyword represents.

           Imported Text

           VAX Notes allows notes and replies to be created outside of
           VAX Notes (using any editor which can produce ASCII output
           files) and then later imported to the conference.

           Mail Integration

           VAX Notes uses the VMS mail facility (included in the VMS
           Operating System) to allow users to send notes or messages
           to other users from within VAX Notes.

           LinkWorks

           LinkWorks allows the user to create links between notes in
           a VAX Notes conference as well as links between notes and
           other applications which support LinkWorks, such as the VMS
           mail facility. LinkWorks is useful in establishing links be-
           tween elements in different databases and also allows easy
           navigation along the paths established by the links. For more
           information regarding LinkWorks, please refer to the VMS DECwin-
           dows Motif[TM] Software Product Description (SPD 36.09.xx).

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and/or hardware configuration as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 27.06.06-x).







                                       5

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           For Systems Using Terminals: (No DECwindows Interface):

           o  VMS Operating System

           For Workstations Running VWS:

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS Workstation Software

           For Workstations Running DECwindows:

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  VMS DECwindows Motif

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 27.06.06-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software and for information regarding components of VMS DECwin-
           dows Motif.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

           VAX Notes - Server/Client

           Software Licenses: QL-960A*-**
           Software Media: QA-960A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-960A*-**

           VAX Notes - Client Only

           Software Licenses: QL-VESA*-**
           Software Media: QA-960A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-960AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-VESA*-**



                                       6

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.


           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           VAX Notes contains three licensing options:

           Note: The full-function options consist of client and server
           capabilities. The Personal Use License is limited to client
           capability only.

           o  Unlimited System Use Full-function license - Server/Client

           The Unlimited System Use license includes an Unlimited Sys-
           tem Use client and Unlimited System Use server. This option
           allows unlimited client access (limited only by system re-
           sources) to local or remote conferences. The Unlimited Sys-
           tem Use Full-function license allows unlimited local client
           and unlimited remote client access to the server.

           o  Concurrent Use Full-function license - Server/Client

           VAX Notes offers a Concurrent Use license. Each Concurrent
           Use license allows any one individual at a time to use the
           layered product. Multiple Concurrent Use licenses may be pur-
           chased for any given system configuration. This option re-
           stricts the number of simultaneous local client users on the
           node or VAXcluster where the Concurrent Use license is in-
           stalled and allows unlimted remote client access to the server.

           o  Personal Use License - Client only

           VAX Notes offers a Personal Use license. Each Personal Use
           license allows one identified individual to use the layered
           product. The Personal Use license consists of client capa-
           bility only. This option allows single user access to re-
           mote conferences.


                                       7

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           The VAX Notes Client Personal Use License contains the ma-
           jority of VAX Notes functionality, but prevents the creation
           of conferences. That is, the Personal Use License allows the
           user to read, write, and access Notes conferences that re-
           side where an Unlimited or Concurrent Use License is installed,
           but does not allow for the creation, opening, or copying of
           local conferences onto the client node. The VAX Notes Client
           will not function unless there is a VAX Notes Server installed
           in the network.

           The Personal Use License is effective in situations where
           users want to use VAX Notes on all nodes in a DECnet net-
           work, but do not want to host conferences on each node the
           network. The Personal Use License is offered at a to make
           it cost effective to use VAX Notes in distributed network
           and VAXcluster environments.

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use, Concurrent Use and Personal Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.







                                       8

 



           VAX Notes, Version 2.2                      SPD 27.06.06


           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [TM]Motif is a trademark of Open Software Foundation,
               Inc.

           [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, DECwindows, MicroVAX, VAX, DEC,
               VAXstation, VAXserver, DECnet, DECnet-VAX, EDT,
               LinkWorks, DECspell, GOLD KEY and ALL-IN-1 are trade-
               marks of Digital Equipment Corporation.























                                       9
