 

Software
Product
Description

___________________________________________________________________

PRODUCT NAME:  StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver    SPD 41.55.00
               Backup Server for OpenVMS VAX, Version
               2.0; OpenVMS AXP, Version 2.0;

Description

StorageWorks[R] Desktop Backup/Archiver provides high performance, easy-
to-use, over-the-network backup and restore services for IBM[R]-compatible
personal computers and Macintosh[R] systems to OpenVMS VAX and AXP servers.
The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver product uses a client/server
model to provide unattended backup of multiple client systems to one
or more servers. It uses DECnet services provided by Digital Equip-
ment Corporation's PATHWORKS product family. It may also use Appletalk[R]
services provided by Apple Computer.

StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver allows OpenVMS VAX or OpenVMS AXP
systems running PATHWORKS to act as a backup server to networked clients
running PATHWORKS for DOS, PATHWORKS for Macintosh, or running Appletalk
networking software. The server is an OpenVMS VAX or AXP platform with
any directly attached tape and/or disk drive supported by the Open-
VMS operating system. For the list of supported tape and disk drives,
refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Descrip-
tion (SPD 25.01) or the OpenVMS AXP Operating System Software Prod-
uct Description (SPD 41.87). Multiple clients on the network may be
backed up by a single Desktop Backup/Archiver server system.

The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver server initiates client back-
ups, writes and reads data to/from OpenVMS server-connected tape drives
or disk drives, maintains backup schedules, and provides media man-
agement facilities.

The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver server provides the follow-
ing function for client systems:

o  Server-system backup process management

                              DIGITAL                     June 1994

                                                        AE-PPKNF-TH

 

o  Backup Job Scheduling

o  Security

o  The server side of backup/restore services

The StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver client software provides client
backup functionality including:

o  Reading the local disk(s)

o  Sending files to the StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver server.

o  Receiving files provided by the StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver
   server to be restored to the local disk(s)

o  Provides a graphical management console for centralized control of
   backup and restore operations

o  Provides a graphical user console for local control of backup and
   restore operations.

Clients are IBM or IBM-compatible PCs or Macintosh systems that have
local disks with backup requirements. The backup client process may
be initiated by the desktop system user or automatically by the soft-
ware. A small portion of the client software is always present in the
desktop system memory. This software listens to the network and starts
the backup client program when requested by the server. Backups and
restores can be initiated via the user interface. Microsoft Windows
users and Macintosh users may run the client software in the background
while still using the desktop system for other operations.

Server Features

o  Network-based graphical user interface

o  Command line user interface for creating batch controlled processes

o  Supports a wide variety of VAX, AXP, and HSC-connected tape drives

o  Allows backups to be directed to either tape or disk

o  Backup scheduling capabilities, with automatic rescheduling

o  Backup library to record the location of data on tape volumes

                                 2

 

o  Event logger to record events such as completed backups and errors

o  A security module to maintain lists of clients, users, passwords,
   and backup administrators, enhancing data privacy and security

Client Features

o  Network-based graphical user interface

o  "Set once and forget" functionality for automatic networked-PC backup

o  Client-based backup scheduling

o  Access to Server History database to facilitate file restoration

o  Full and incremental backup

o  Files and directories can be specifically included or excluded from
   the backup process

o  Ability to restore disks which have accidentally been erased or have
   been replaced

Network Transports

StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver supports access to OpenVMS servers
via DECnet. Macintosh systems can use either DECnet or Appletalk trans-
ports when used with OpenVMS VAX servers. Macintosh clients can func-
tion only with the DECnet transport when used with OpenVMS AXP servers.

OpenVMS VAX Server Software Requirements

o  OpenVMS VAX Operating System V5.3 or higher

o  DECnet-VAX V5.2 - V5.5

o  PATHWORKS for VMS Macintosh V1.2 (only required for Macintosh clients
   using Appletalk transport)

o  VMS DECwindows Motif[R] V1.1 or DECwindows [R] Motif for OpenVMS
   VAX V1.1 or higher

                                 3

 

o  VAX Rdb/VMS (Runtime Only or Development) V4.0-3 - V6.0

StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver will run with Multiversion Rdb
if one of the above supported versions of Rdb is run concurrently.

OpenVMS AXP Server Software Requirements

o  OpenVMS AXP Operating System V6.0 or higher

o  DECnet for OpenVMS AXP V6.0 or higher

o  DECwindows Motif for OpenVMS AXP V1.1 or higher

o  DEC Rdb for OpenVMS AXP (Runtime Only or Development) V5.1 - V6.0

StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver will run with Multiversion Rdb
if one of the above supported versions of Rdb is run concurrently.

MS-DOS Client Software Requirements

o  MS-DOS V3.3 or higher

o  PATHWORKS for DOS

Microsoft Windows Client Software Requirements

o  Microsoft Windows V3.0 or higher

o  PATHWORKS for DOS

Windows for Workgroups Client Software Requirements

o  Microsoft Windows for Workgroups V3.1 or higher

o  PATHWORKS for DOS





                                 4

 

Macintosh Client Software Requirements

o  Macintosh operating system 6.0.5, 6.0.7, 6.0.8, 7.0, 7.0 tuneup 1.1.1,
   7.0.1, 7.0.1 tuneup 1.1.1, 7.0.1P, 7.1, 7.1P.

o  PATHWORKS for Macintosh (only required if DECnet transport is de-
   sired)

o  Macintosh Communications Toolbox (only required if DECnet trans-
   port is desired for System 6.x)

o  ASDP Init (only required if Appletalk transport is desired for Sys-
   tem 6.x)

Server Hardware Requirements

Server Disk Space Requirements:

Disk space required for      20,000 blocks
VAX installation:

Disk space required for      15,000 blocks
VAX use (permanent):

Disk space required for      16,000 blocks
AXP installation:

Disk space required for      15,000 blocks
AXP use (permanent):

The above are storage requirements for disk space on the server sys-
tem disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending
on the user's system environment, configuration, and software options.

Optional Server Hardware

Any directly attached OpenVMS VAX supported tape drive. For the spe-
cific equipment list, refer to the OpenVMS VAX Operating System Soft-
ware Product Description (SPD 25.01) or the OpenVMS AXP Operating Sys-
tem Software Product Description (SPD 41.87).

                                 5

 

Hardware Not Supported

Tape drives attached to the Infoserver family of products are not sup-
ported by StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Server.

Cluster Environment for Server

This layered product is supported when installed on any valid and li-
censed VAXcluster configuration without restrictions.

o  V5.x VAXcluster configurations are fully described in the VAXclus-
   ter Software Product Description (29.78.xx) and include CI, Eth-
   ernet, and Mixed Interconnect configurations.

MS-DOS, Microsoft Windows, Windows for Workgroups Client Hardware
Requirements

Refer to the PATHWORKS for DOS and Windows Software Product Descrip-
tion (SPD 55.07) for the systems, components, and peripherals supported
by the StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver DOS client and Windows client.

Client Disk Space Requirements:

Disk space required for      1.3 Mbytes
DOS installation:

Disk space required for      1.3 Mbytes
Windows installation
without console

Disk space required for      1.5 Mbytes
Windows installation with
consoles

Disk space required for      2.2 Mbytes
DOS and Windows installa-
tion with consoles



                                 6

 


Disk space required for      900 Kbytes
DOS use:

Disk space required          800 Kbytes
for Windows use without
consoles

Disk space required for      1 Mbytes
Windows use with consoles

Disk space required for      1.8 Mbytes
DOS and Windows use

The above are storage requirements for disk space on the client sys-
tem disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending
on the user's system environment, configuration, and software options.

Macintosh Client Hardware Requirements

Refer to the PATHWORKS for Macintosh Software Product Description (SPD
31.53) for the systems, components, and peripherals supported by the
StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Macintosh client.

o  One network connection (Ethernet, LocalTalk[R], or TokenTalk[R])
   supported for use with the associated base system

Client Disk Space Requirements:

Disk space required for      700 Kbytes
installation:

Disk space required for      700 Kbytes
use (permanent):

The above are storage requirements for disk space on the client sys-
tem disk. The sizes are approximate; actual sizes may vary depending
on the user's system environment, configuration, and software options.


                                 7

 

Ordering Information

Server/Client Package:

This package contains one server license and one license to use up to
15 clients, System Administrator's Guide, Installation documentation,
and software distribution media. This software is distributed on sev-
eral media types.

o  QB-3AYAB-AA 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape for VAX Systems

o  QB-3AYAA-AA TK50 Streaming Tape for VAX Systems

o  QB-3AYAC-AA CD-ROM for AXP Systems

Client License Packages:

There are several client license packages from which to choose. Each
client license package contains one license with the right to use the
number of clients specified.

o  QL-388AL-3D License for 25 incremental clients

o  QL-388AL-3E License for 50 incremental clients

o  QL-388AL-3F License for 100 incremental clients

o  QL-388AL-3G License for 150 incremental clients

o  QL-388AL-3H License for 250 incremental clients

o  QL-388AL-3J License for 500 incremental clients

Media and Documentation Package:

This package contains the System Administrator's Guide, the software
Installation Guide, and software distribution media.

o  QA-MR1AA-WM 9-track 1600 BPI Magtape for VAX Systems

o  QA-MR1AA-W5 TK50 Streaming Tape for VAX Systems

o  QA-MR1AA-HM CD-ROM for AXP Systems

Documentation Package: QA-MR1AB-GZ

                                 8

 

This package contains the System Administrator's Guide and the soft-
ware Installation Guide.

SOFTWARE LICENSING

This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more in-
formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
local Digital office.

License Management Facility Support

StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Server supports the OpenVMS Li-
cense Management Facility. License units for this product are allo-
cated on a Traditional basis. StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Client
allocates multiple license units for Concurrent Use. License manage-
ment for StorageWorks Desktop Backup/Archiver Client is conducted by
the server software.

For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
OpenVMS VAX Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01)
or OpenVMS AXP Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 41.87)
or to the License Management Facility manual of the OpenVMS VAX Op-
erating System documentation set.

SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
formation, contact your local Digital office.

SOFTWARE WARRANTY

Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
Addendum of this SPD.





                                 9

 

Growth Considerations

The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future version of
this product may be different from the requirements for the current
version.

[R]  Microsoft, MS, and MS-DOS are registered trademarks of Mi-
     crosoft Corporation.

[R]  IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Ma-
     chines, Inc.

[TM] Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

[R]  Apple, AppleTalk, Classic, LocalTalk, Macintosh, MacTCP,
     MacTerminal, and TokenTalk are registered trademarks of Apple
     Computer, Inc.

[TM] Centris, Performa, Powerbook, and Quadra are trademarks of
     Apple Computer, Inc.

[R]  Motif is a registered trademark of the Open Software Founda-
     tion Inc.

[TM] The DIGITAL Logo, AXP, CI, DEC, DECnet, DECpc, DECstation,
     DECwindows, DEPCA, Digital, EtherWORKS, HSC, MicroVAX, Open-
     VMS, PATHWORKS, Rdb/VMS, RX, RX33, StorageWorks, TK, VAX,
     VAXcluster, VAXft, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are trade-
     marks of Digital Equipment Corporation.

©    Copyright (c) 1994 Digital Equipment Corporation. All Rights
     Reserved.








                                10
