 

 Software
 Product
 Description

 ___________________________________________________________________

 PRODUCT NAME:   DECinspect                             SPD 26.N1.01
                 Compliance Manager for VMS, Version 2.2

 DESCRIPTION

 DECinspect Compliance Manager (DECinspect CM) for VMS is a software
 tool that a security or system manager uses to establish a custom se-
 curity analysis and reporting system to manage the security of a net-
 work of distributed systems. With this tool, the security manager can
 implement and maintain a security standard consistent with corporate
 security policy for the VMS nodes in the distributed computing envi-
 ronment.

 Customers can purchase security consulting services for assistance in
 designing and implementing a security analysis and reporting system
 that balances business needs with security requirements. Local Dig-
 ital offices can assist customers in determining the appropriate ser-
 vices for their requirements.

 DECinspect CM software runs on every VMS node in a network to peri-
 odically evaluate compliance with a security policy defined by the se-
 curity manager. Optionally, DECinspect CM software also:

 o  Reports to DECinspect Security Reporting Facility (DECinspect SRF)
    for VMS software (SPD 26.N2.xx). DECinspect SRF software runs on
    one or more nodes and supports centralized collection and manage-
    ment of compliance reports from DECinspect CM installations.

 o  Examines settings of and supports use of DECinspect Intrusion De-
    tector (DECinspect ID) for VMS software (SPD 41.27.xx). DECinspect
    ID software monitors VMS Audit Server events in real-time and sends
    alarms of specified events to the security manager. DECinspect ID
    can also take automatic countermeasures against users and nodes de-
    fined to be intruders.

                               DIGITAL                      May 1992

                                                         AE-PGBZB-TE

 

 DECinspect CM software establishes processes called inspectors. An in-
 spector periodically evaluates (inspects) nodes for compliance with
 the security-relevant parameter settings in the inspector's policy file.
 Using DECinspect CM software, the security manager defines settings
 for the parameters in policy files.

 A security manager can choose standard parameters and tests and op-
 tionally create customized file, directory, and account parameters and
 customized tests. For VMS systems, inspectors can evaluate the security-
 relevant parameters belonging to the following system components:

 o  Files and directories

 o  Accounts

 o  Network settings and accounts

 o  SYSGEN parameters

 o  Security auditing

 o  DECinspect ID settings

 o  Any others defined by the security manager

 Each DECinspect CM installation has a Required Inspector and the op-
 tion to create customized inspectors. The security manager sets the
 parameters of the Required Inspector policy file and establishes an
 inspection schedule to comply with a corporate baseline security stan-
 dard. The security manager can establish other customized inspectors
 to evaluate any set of parameters, on any required schedule.

 After each inspection is completed, the inspector generates a detailed
 report indicating the success or failure of each test performed. The
 report describes results for all nodes tested by the inspector. By de-
 fault, the report is mailed to the system account or the user who ini-
 tiated the inspector. The detailed reports can also be sent to any elec-
 tronic mail address specified on the inspector's distribution list by
 the security manager.

                                  2

 

 For each node, DECinspect CM software generates a DCL command proce-
 dure, known as a lockdown file, that can be run to adjust parameters
 automatically to comply with the policy file used by the inspector that
 created the lockdown.

 Note: Lockdown command procedures should never be run without assess-
 ing the impact of parameter changes to system operations. Each com-
 mand in a lockdown command procedure should be examined to make sure
 the suggested solution is compatible with the particular environment.

 The Required Inspector optionally generates security status messages
 called tokens. Tokens contain a summary of the inspection of the com-
 plete set of security-relevant parameters in the Required Inspector's
 policy file. DECinspect CM software sends the tokens to a central col-
 lection point - a node running the DECinspect SRF security reporting
 software.

 While DECinspect CM can be used alone in small distributed systems,
 managing a large number of nodes or a set of nodes on a dispersed net-
 work can be difficult. DECinspect SRF software supports centralized
 management for distributed DECinspect CM client nodes. DECinspect SRF
 software extracts data from tokens and maintains this compliance data
 in a relational database for management reporting. For more informa-
 tion about managing network security, see the DEC Security Reporting
 Facility for VMS Software Product Description (SPD 26.N2.xx).

 Additional DECinspect Products

 o  DECinspect Compliance Manager for ULTRIX (SPD 41.26.xx)

 o  DECinspect Compliance Manager for SunOS (SPD 41.25.xx)

 o  DECinspect Security Reporting Facility (DECinspect SRF) for VMS (SPD
    26.N2.xx)

 o  DECinspect Intrusion Detector (DECinspect ID) for VMS (SPD 41.27.xx)




                                  3

 

 HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

 Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the System
 Support Addendum (SSA 26.N1.01-x).

 SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

 For Systems Using Terminals (No DECwindows Interface):

 VMS Operating System
 DECforms Run-Time System
 DECnet-VAX End Node (if DECinspect SRF support is required)

 For Workstations Running VWS:

 VMS Operating System
 DECforms Run-Time System
 DECnet-VAX End Node (if DECinspect SRF support is required)

 For Workstations Running DECwindows (No DECwindows interface, use DEC-
 term):

 VMS Operating System (and necessary components of VMS DECwindows)
 DECforms Run-Time System
 DECnet-VAX End Node (if DECinspect SRF support is required)

 Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 26.N1.01-x) for availabil-
 ity and versions of required/optional software and for information re-
 garding components of VMS DECwindows.

 ORDERING INFORMATION

 o  QL-GKLA9-AA: A single, generic (tier-neutral) capacity-based DECin-
    spect CM license orderable for any VAX processor. Use this order
    number if the processor is already licensed for the DECforms Run-
    Time System or if a separate general-purpose DECforms Run-Time Sys-
    tem license is ordered in conjunction with the DECinspect CM li-
    cense. See the DECforms SPD (29.90.xx) for ordering information.


                                  4

 

 o  QP-LAWAA-**: A license PACKAGE that includes licenses for both DECin-
    spect CM and the DECforms Run-Time System. These DECforms Run-Time
    System licenses are restricted for use with DECinspect CM exclu-
    sively. The order number for the license package varies depending
    on the processor (** = 01-17). Use these order numbers if the pro-
    cessor is not currently licensed for the DECforms Run-Time System.

 Software Media: QA-GKLAA-**
 Software Documentation: QA-GKLAA-GZ
 Software Product Services: QT-GKLA*-**

 *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on available li-
    censes, services, and media, refer to the appropriate price book.

 Note: DECforms Run-Time System media, documentation, and Software Prod-
 uct Services are available separately, and are not included in the QP
 package. Refer to the DECforms Software Product Description (SPD 29.90.xx)
 for ordering details.

 SOFTWARE LICENSING

 This software is furnished under the licensing provisions of Digital
 Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Conditions. The DECforms
 Run-Time System licenses provided in the QP license packages are fur-
 nished for use with DECinspect CM software exclusively. For more in-
 formation about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact your
 local Digital office.

 License Management Facility Support

 This layered product supports the VMS License Management Facility.

 License units for this product are allocated on an Unlimited System
 Use Basis.

 For more information on the License Management Facility, refer to the
 VMS Operating System Software Product Description (SPD 25.01.xx) or
 the License Management Facility manual of the VMS Operating System doc-
 umentation set.

                                  5

 

 SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

 A variety of service options are available from Digital. For more in-
 formation, contact your local Digital office.

 In addition to standard SPS remedial services, consulting services for
 assistance in planning, designing, and implementing a custom security
 analysis and reporting system with the DECinspect CM and DECinspect
 SRF tools are also available. For more information, contact your lo-
 cal Digital office.

 SOFTWARE WARRANTY

 As with any security product, DECinspect CM software should be con-
 sidered part of an overall security plan. Customers are encouraged to
 follow industry-recognized security practices and not rely on any sin-
 gle security product or service to provide complete protection.

 Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital with the pur-
 chase of a license for the product as defined in the Software Warranty
 Addendum of this SPD.
 

 [TM]SunOS is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc.

 [TM]The DIGITAL Logo, DEC, DECforms, DECinspect, DECnet, MicroVAX,
    ULTRIX, VAX, VAXserver, VAXstation, and VMS are trademarks of
    Digital Equipment Corporation












                                  6
