 






           Software
           Product
           Description

           _________________________________________________________

           PRODUCT NAME:  DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,
           SPD 36.03.00                Version 1.0

           DESCRIPTION

           DECps Family of Products

           DECperformance Solution (DECps) is a family of VMS layered
           products that reduces the time and effort required to man-
           age and monitor VAX system performance, as well as plan for
           future resource requirements. The DECperformance Solution
           products can be used with standalone VAX, VAXcluster and Lo-
           cal Area VAXcluster systems, as well as Mixed-interconnect
           VAXcluster systems. The DECperformance Solution family of
           software products includes:

           DECperformance Solution Data Collector

           DECps Data Collector gathers and manages VMS system data.
           It is described in SPD 36.02.xx. The components are:

           o  Data Collection and Storage

           o  Dump Report

           o  Data Archiving

           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor

           DECps Performance Advisor analyzes VMS data through the ap-
           plication of expert system technology, identifies specific
           conditions causing performance degradation, and presents de-
           tailed evidence to support its conclusions. Further, the Per-
           formance Advisor provides recommendations for attaining im-
           proved system performance. It is described in this SPD. The
           components are:

                                    DIGITAL            December 1991

                                                         AE-PH6WA-TE

 



           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,SPD 36.03.00
           Version 1.0

           o  Performance Knowledge Base and Rules Compiler

           o  Performance Analysis

           o  Reporting and Graphing

           o  Callable Interface

           DECperformance Solution Capacity Planner

           DECps Capacity Planner determines system performance lev-
           els for various workloads and configuration. It is described
           in SPD 36.04.xx. The components are:

           o  Workload modeling including:
              Validation
              Terminal Response
              Memory

           o  Predictive modeling including:
              "What if" analysis
              Saturation analysis

           DECperformance Solution Accounting Chargeback

           DECps Accounting Chargeback generates a report of charges
           based upon system resource utilization with user specified
           resource pricing. It is described in SPD 36.60.xx.

           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor

           Performance Knowledge Base and Rules Compiler

           The DECps Performance Advisor contains a knowledge base of
           rules and thresholds which it uses to analyze VAX system data.
           The Performance Advisor rules fall into five categories: Mem-
           ory, CPU, I/O, Cluster, and Miscellaneous.

           The knowledge base may be modified and expanded at the user's
           discretion. To integrate new rules, modify existing rules,
           or effectively turn off existing rules, the user creates an
           auxiliary knowledge base. In subsequent analysis, the user

                                       2

 



           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,SPD 36.03.00
           Version 1.0

           can load the auxiliary knowledge base to augment DECps Per-
           formance Advisor factory rules.

           The Performance Advisor produces an analysis report that aids
           the system manager in monitoring system activities and in
           making performance evaluations by quickly identifying per-
           formance problems. Through its analysis, DECps will also iden-
           tify potential bottlenecks and the specific device on which
           the bottleneck will occur.

           The Performance Advisor reports are generated at the request
           of the user and include: the Analysis Report, the Perfor-
           mance Evaluation Report, Line Graphs and Pie Charts. The Per-
           formance Advisor reports can be generated from either daily
           or historical data, with the exception of the analysis re-
           port which is generated from daily data files only.

           Analysis Report

           The Performance Advisor Analysis Report provides conclusions
           and recommendations for improving system performance. The
           Analysis Report also contains the conditions under which the
           identified problems occurred, along with supporting evidence
           to substantiate DECps conclusions. The Analysis Report is
           generated from daily data files and, therefore, is most use-
           ful for daily, hourly, and weekly system performance anal-
           ysis.

           Brief Analysis Report

           A Brief Analysis Report is also available. It identifies the
           rules which fired during the analysis period and provides
           a one-line synopsis of the problem statement.

           Performance Evaluation Report

           The Performance Evaluation Report provides system statis-
           tics to assist the system manager in gauging the impact of



                                       3

 



           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,SPD 36.03.00
           Version 1.0

           changes made to the system. It is particularly useful in mon-
           itoring system performance after implementation of a DECps
           recommendation.

           This report provides summaries of disk and tape activity,
           CPU and memory utilization, as well as detailed statistics
           on all process activity. The Performance Evaluation Report
           is generated from either daily or archived data.

           Specifically, the Performance Evaluation Report provides sum-
           mary information on:

           o  Workloads by user-group and transaction families

           o  Workloads of interactive, batch and network processes

           o  Locking traffic

           o  Tables of SCS data

           o  Disk utilizations

           o  Tape activity

           o  CPU and memory usage

           o  Pool resources by node

           o  "Hot File" activity

           o  Node Tabular Report

           o  Terminal Response Time

           Graphs

           DECps Performance Advisor provides a facility to graphically
           represent the data which has been collected in the DECps database.
           DECps graphing provides the system manager with "pictures"
           of the system's performance metrics and is a robust source
           of information from which a better understanding of resource
           utilization and overall workload demands is obtained.

                                       4

 



           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,SPD 36.03.00
           Version 1.0

           A wide range of predefined line graphs and pie charts are
           provided along with the ability to define custom graphs. Graphs
           can be created in various output formats, including ReGIS,
           ANSI, and PostScript®, in either pie charts or line graphs.

           System data may be graphed for any length of time using ei-
           ther daily or archived data as the source. This can be an
           effective way to study the long term performance trends of
           any VAX standalone or VAXcluster System.

           Callable Interface

           DECps Performance Advisor provides data extraction proce-
           dures which may be called explicitly from user-written pro-
           grams. This facility allows system and application program-
           mers to call library procedures for extraction of daily data.
           It also provides record definitions for the following lan-
           guages: Ada, BASIC, BLISS, C, FORTRAN, LISP, MACRO, Pascal,
           and PL/I.

           Features

           DECps provides the user with the capabilities to effectively
           manage the performance of a system.

           o  DECps analyzes system workload data, identifies perfor-
              mance related problems and provides recommendations for
              improved performance.

           o  Users can effectively change existing rules, turn off ex-
              isting rules, and add rules specific to their applica-
              tion or environment.

           o  DECps identifies: future bottlenecks before they occur;
              processes which may be using inordinate amounts of sys-
              tem resources; and the most frequently accessed files per
              disk, often referred to as "Hot Files."

           o  Graphical representation of DECps data files allows the
              system manager to visually evaluate system performance.

                                       5

 



           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,SPD 36.03.00
           Version 1.0

           o  Histograms of CPU utilization, disk I/O, memory utiliza-
              tion and terminal I/O for each node in the VAXcluster sys-
              tem are available.

           o  Support for single VAX processors, VAXcluster, Local Area
              VAXcluster and Mixed-interconnect VAXcluster, and mul-
              tiple CI-VAXcluster systems is provided.

           o  Analysis of data can be performed from any VAX proces-
              sor in the VAXcluster system without shutdown.

           o  DECps data can be archived and presented for any length
              of time in both report and graph format.

           o  DECps provides three interfaces: DCL commands, command
              mode, and DECwindows.

           o  Computer Based Training (CBT) is provided to help users
              learn about DECps Performance Advisor. The CBT uses the
              DECwindows Bookreader to present the tutorial.

           HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS

           Processor and/or hardware configurations as specified in the
           System Support Addendum (SSA 36.03.00-x).

           SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS

           o  VMS Operating System

           o  DECperformance Solution Data Collector on the node where
              DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor is to be in-
              stalled

           o  DECwindows (if DECwindows interface will be used)

           Refer to the System Support Addendum (SSA 36.03.00-x) for
           availability and required versions of prerequisite/optional
           software.

           ORDERING INFORMATION

                                       6

 



           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,SPD 36.03.00
           Version 1.0

           Software Licenses: QL-GX2A*-**
           Software Media: QA-GX2A*-**
           Software Documentation: QA-GX2AA-GZ
           Software Product Services: QT-GX2A*-**

           *  Denotes variant fields. For additional information on avail-
              able licenses, services and media, refer to the appro-
              priate price book.

           SOFTWARE LICENSING

           The right to use DECperformance Solution Performance Advi-
           sor was also included in with VAX Performance Advisor (SPD
           27.71.xx) and VAX Software Performance Monitor (SPD 27.56.xx).

           When an Update License is required for DECps Performance Ad-
           visor and the license that granted the right to use the prod-
           uct is the VAX Performance Advisor or the VAX Software Per-
           formance Monitor, the customer should purchase the DECps Per-
           formance Advisor Update License.

           This software is furnished under the licensing provisions
           of Digital Equipment Corporation's Standard Terms and Con-
           ditions. For more information about Digital's licensing terms
           and policies, contact your local Digital office.

           License Management Facility Support

           This layered product supports the VMS License Management Fa-
           cility.

           License units for this product are allocated on an Unlim-
           ited System Use basis.

           For more information on the License Management Facility, re-
           fer to the VMS Operating System Software Product Descrip-
           tion (SPD 25.01.xx) or the License Management Facility man-
           ual of the VMS Operating System documentation set.

           For more information on Digital's licensing terms and poli-
           cies, contact your local Digital office.

                                       7

 



           DECperformance Solution Performance Advisor,SPD 36.03.00
           Version 1.0

           SOFTWARE PRODUCT SERVICES

           A variety of service options are available from Digital. For
           more information, contact your local Digital office.

           SOFTWARE WARRANTY

           Warranty for this software product is provided by Digital
           with the purchase of a license for the product as defined
           in the Software Warranty Addendum of this SPD.

           [TM] The DIGITAL Logo, VAX, VMS, MicroVAX, VAXstation,
                VAXserver, BASIC, DECwindows, ReGIS and VAXcluster
                are trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.



























                                       8
